RULES REFERENCERULES REFERENCE

The Thing That  
Should Not Be…
The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the 
human mind to correlate all its contents.
—H. P. Lovecraft, “The Call of Cthulhu”
This document is intended as the definitive source for rules 
information, but does not teach players how to play the game. 
Players should first read the Learn to Play book in its entirety and 
use this Rules Reference as needed while playing the game.
The majority of this guide consists of a glossary, which 
provides an alphabetical listing of terms and situations a player 
might encounter during a game. This section should be the 
first destination for players who have a rules question.
The latter part of this guide contains four appendices. The first 
appendix describes the process of playing cards or initiating 
triggered abilities. The second appendix provides timing diagrams 
that illustrate the structure of a game round, as well as a detailed 
explanation of how to handle each game step presented in 
those diagrams. The third appendix lists the complete rules for 
setting up a game of Arkham Horror: The Card Game . The fourth 
appendix provides a detailed anatomy of each cardtype.
The Golden Rules
If the text of this Rules Reference directly contradicts the text of the 
Learn to Play book, the text of the Rules Reference takes precedence.
If the text of a card directly contradicts the text 
of either the Rules Reference or the Learn to Play 
book, the text of the card takes precedence.
The Grim Rule
If players are unable to find the answer to a rules or timing conflict 
in this Rules Reference, resolve the conflict in the manner that 
the players perceive as the worst possible at that moment with 
regards to winning the scenario, and continue with the game.
Glossary
The following is an alphabetical list of entries for game 
rules, terms, and situations that may occur during play.
A, An
When used to describe a condition, the words “a” or “an” 
are satisfied if one or more of the conditional elements are 
present.  For example, an investigator with 3 resources will 
satisfy the condition of “Each investigator with a resource.”
Ability
An ability is the specialized game text that 
indicates how a card affects the game.
 = Card abilities only interact with the game if the card bearing 
the ability is in play, unless the ability (or rules for the cardtype) 
specifically references its use from an out-of-play area.
 = Card abilities only interact with other cards that are 
in play, unless the ability specifically references an 
interaction with cards in an out-of-play area.
 = If multiple instances of the same ability are 
in play, each instance interacts with (or may 
interact with) the game state individually.
The various types of card abilities are: constant abilities, forced 
abilities, revelation abilities, triggered abilities, keywords, and enemy 
instructions (spawn and prey). Each type is described in detail below.
See also: “Costs” on page 7, “Effects” on page 9, “Qualifiers” 
on page 17, “Self-Referential Text” on page 18.
Constant Abilities
Constant abilities are simply stated on a card with no 
special formatting. Constant abilities are always interacting 
with the game state as long as the card is in play. (Some 
constant abilities continuously seek a specific condition, 
denoted by words such as “during” or “while.” The effects 
of such abilities are active any time the specified condition 
is met.) Constant abilities have no point of initiation.
Forced Abilities
A forced ability is identified by a bold “ Forced –” command. 
Forced abilities initiate and interact with the game state 
automatically at a specified timing point. Such a timing point is 
usually indicated by words such as: “when,” “after,” “if,” or “at.” 
 = If a forced ability does not have the potential to change 
the game state, the ability does not initiate.
 = The initiation of a forced ability that has the 
potential to change the game state is mandatory 
each time its specified timing point is met.
 = A forced ability with a timing point beginning 
with the word “when...” automatically initiates as 
soon as the specified timing point is reached, but 
before its impact upon the game state resolves.
Halt!
Read the Learn to Play book first. As questions arise 
during gameplay, use this document’s glossary as a 
reference. After playing the tutorial game, we recommend 
reading the appendices beginning on page 22. 
2
RULES REFERENCE

 = A forced ability with a timing point beginning with the 
word “after...” automatically initiates immediately after that 
timing point’s impact upon the game state has resolved.
 = For any given timing point, all forced abilities initiated 
in reference to that timing point must resolve before 
any  abilites (see below) referencing the same timing 
point in the same manner may be initiated.
See “Priority of Simultaneous Resolution” on page 17.
Revelation Abilities
A revelation ability, indicated by a bold “ Revelation  –” command 
on an encounter card or weakness, initiates as that card is 
drawn by an investigator (see “Revelation” on page 18).
Triggered Abilities
A triggered ability is any ability prefaced by either a  icon, a  
icon, or an  icon.  If the ability has one or more prerequisites (costs 
and/or conditions), these are listed in text immediately following the 
icon. A player must always meet the prerequisites of a triggered ability in 
order to trigger that ability. There are three types of triggered abilities:
Free triggered abilities ( )—A  triggered ability 
may be triggered as a player ability during any player 
window. (See “Appendix II: Timing and Gameplay” on 
page 22 for a complete list of player windows.)
Reaction triggered abilities ( )—A  triggered 
ability with a specified triggering condition may be 
triggered any time that triggering condition is met. 
For example: “  After you defeat an enemy:”
 = A  ability with a triggering condition beginning 
with the word “when...” may be used after the 
specified triggering condition initiates, but before 
its impact upon the game state resolves.
 = A  ability with a triggering condition beginning with the 
word “after...” may be used immediately after that triggering 
condition’s impact upon the game state has resolved.
 = Each  ability may be triggered only once each 
time the specified condition on the ability is met.  
For example, an ability that is triggered “After X 
occurs,” may be used once each time “X” occurs.
Action triggered abilities ( )—An  triggered ability may 
be triggered during a player’s turn in the investigation phase 
through the use of the activate action, and only if the player 
uses one action for each  specified in the ability’s cost .
All triggered abilities are governed by the following rules:
 = Triggered abilities on a card a player controls are 
optionally triggered (or not) by that player at the 
appropriate timing moment, as indicated by the ability.
 = A triggered ability can only be initiated if its effect has 
the potential to change the game state, and its cost (if 
any) has the potential to be paid in full, taking active 
cost modifiers into account. This potential is assessed 
without taking into account the consequences of the 
cost payment or any other ability interactions.
 = Once an ability is initiated, players must resolve as 
much of the effect as possible, unless the effect uses 
the word “may” (see “May” on page 15).
Keywords
A keyword is a card ability which conveys specific 
rules to its card (see “Keywords” on page 13).
Spawn Instructions and Prey Instructions
Spawn instructions inform where an enemy spawns 
as it enters play (see “Spawn” on page 19).
Prey instructions inform which investigator an enemy pursues 
and/or engages if it has a choice (see “Prey” on page 17).
Action Designators
Some abilities have bold action designators (such as Fight, 
Evade, Investigate, or Move). Activating such an ability 
performs the designated action as described in the rules, 
but modified in the manner described by the ability.
Act Deck and Agenda Deck
The act deck represents the progress the investigators can make in 
a scenario. The agenda deck represents the progress and objectives 
of the dark forces arrayed against the investigators in a scenario. 
Generally, advancing the act deck is good for the investigators, 
and advancing the agenda deck is bad for the investigators.
 = The act deck advances if the investigators, as a group, spend 
the requisite number of clues (as indicated by the act card).  
An act card may indicate a flat value (such as “4”) or a per 
investigator value (as indicated by the  icon). This is 
normally done as a  player ability. Any or all investigators 
may contribute any number of clues towards the total 
number of clues required to advance the act. If the act has an 
“Objective –” instruction, that instruction overrides or adds 
additional requirements to the spending of those clues.
 = The agenda deck advances if the requisite number of 
doom is in play (doom on the agenda card as well as doom 
on any other cards in play), as indicated by the agenda 
card. An agenda card may indicate a flat value or a per 
investigator value. If the agenda has an “ Objective – ” 
instruction, that instruction overrides or adds additional 
requirements to meeting this doom requirement.
 = The act/agenda on top of the act/agenda deck is 
referred to as the “current” act/agenda.
To advance the act deck or the agenda deck, 
follow these steps, in order:
1. Remove all tokens from the card to be advanced. If the agenda 
deck is advancing, remove all doom from each card in play.
2. Flip the advancing card over and follow the 
instructions on the reverse (“b”) side.
 = If the reverse side of the act or agenda is an encounter 
card, follow the rules for drawing that encounter cardtype. 
Otherwise, simply follow the instructions on the card.
3. Sometimes, the advancing act/agenda specifies which 
card becomes the next act/agenda.  If it does not, the next 
card in the deck becomes the current act/agenda. As a 
new card becomes the current act/agenda, the advancing 
card is simultaneously removed from the game.
3
RULES REFERENCE

 = Some instructions in the act and agenda decks (as well as on 
other encounter cardtypes) contain resolution points, in the 
format of: “(→R#).” If a resolution point is reached, the scenario 
ends. Read the designated resolution in the campaign guide.
See also: “Clues” on page 6, “Doom” on page 9.
Action
During his or her turn, an investigator is permitted to take up to 
three actions. When performing an action, all costs of the action 
are first paid. Then, the consequences of the action resolve.
 = If an investigator is instructed to lose 1 or more actions, he or 
she has that many fewer actions to take during that round.
For a complete list of the available actions, see section “2.2.1 
Investigator takes an action, if able.” on page 24. 
Activate Action
“Activate” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
When this action is taken, the investigator initiates an ability 
that specifies one or more  icons as part of its ability cost. The 
number of  icons in the ability’s cost determines how many 
actions the investigator is required to use for this activate action. 
When performing an activate action, all of that action’s costs are 
simultaneously paid. Then, the consequences of that action resolve.
An investigator is permitted to activate 
abilities from the following sources:
 = A card in play and under his or her control. This 
includes his or her investigator card.
 = A scenario card that is in play and at the same location as 
the investigator. This includes the location itself, encounter 
cards placed at that location, and all encounter cards in 
the threat area of any investigator at that location.
 = The current act or current agenda card.
Active Player
The active player is the player taking his or her 
turn during the investigation phase.
After
The word “after” refers to the moment immediately after the 
specified timing point or triggering condition has fully resolved.
(For example, an ability that reads “After you draw an enemy card” 
initiates immediately after resolving all of the steps for drawing 
an enemy—resolving its revelation ability, spawning it, etc.)
See also: “Ability” on page 2, “Priority of 
Simultaneous Resolution” on page 17.
Agenda Deck
See “Act Deck and Agenda Deck” on page 3.
Aloof
Aloof is a keyword ability. An enemy with the aloof keyword 
does not automatically engage investigators at its location.
 = When an aloof enemy spawns, it spawns unengaged.
 = An investigator may use the engage action or 
a card ability to engage an aloof enemy.
 = An investigator cannot attack an aloof enemy while 
that enemy is not engaged with an investigator.
Asset Cards
Asset cards represent items, allies, talents, spells, and other reserves 
that may assist or be used by an investigator during a scenario.
 = When you play an asset, it is placed in your play 
area. Generally, assets remain in play unless 
discarded by a card ability or game step.
 = Some assets have health and/or sanity. When an investigator 
is dealt damage or horror, that investigator may assign some 
or all of that damage or horror to eligible asset cards he or she 
controls (see “Dealing Damage/Horror” on page 7).
 = Most assets take up one or more slots while 
in play (see “Slots” on page 19).
 = Some assets have an encounter set icon and no level 
indicator. Such assets are known as Story Assets. Story 
Assets are part of an encounter set and may not be 
included in a player’s deck unless the resolution or setup 
of a scenario grants that player permission to do so.
Attach To
If a card uses the phrase “attach to” it must be attached to (placed 
beneath and slightly overlapped by) the specified game element as it 
enters play. Once attached, such a card is referred to as an attachment. 
 = The “attach to” phrase is checked for legality each time a card 
would be attached to a game element, but is not checked 
again after that attachment occurs. If the initial “attach 
to” check does not pass, the card is not able to be attached, 
and remains in its prior state or game area. If such a card 
cannot remain in its prior state or game area, discard it.
 = Once in play, an attachment remains attached until either 
the attachment or the game element to which it is attached 
leaves play (in which case the attachment is discarded), 
or unless a card ability explicitly detaches the card.
 = An attachment exhausts and readies independently 
of the game element it’s attached to.
Attacker, Attacked
An “attacker” is an entity (usually an enemy or investigator) that is 
resolving its attack against another entity. The entity being attacked 
is referred to as the “attacked enemy” or the “attacked investigator.”
4
RULES REFERENCE

Attack of Opportunity
Each time an investigator is engaged with one or more ready 
enemies and takes an action other than to fight, to evade, or 
to activate a parley or resign ability, each of those enemies 
makes an attack of opportunity against the investigator, in 
the order of the investigator’s choosing. Each attack deals 
that enemy’s damage and horror to the investigator.
 = An attack of opportunity is made immediately after 
all costs of initiating the action that provoked the 
attack have been paid, but before the application 
of that action’s effect upon the game state.
 = An ability that costs more than one action only provokes 
one attack of opportunity from each engaged enemy.
 = An enemy does not exhaust while making 
an attack of opportunity.
 = After all attacks of opportunity are made, continue with 
the resolution of the action which instigated the attack.
 = Attacks of opportunity count as enemy attacks 
for the purposes of card abilities.
Automatic Failure/Success
Some card or token abilities may cause a skill test to automatically 
fail or to automatically succeed. If a skill test automatically 
fails or automatically succeeds, it does so during step “ST.6” 
of the “Skill Test Timing” process outlined on page 26.
 = If a skill test automatically fails, the investigator’s 
total skill value for that test is considered 0.
 = If a skill test automatically succeeds, the total 
difficulty of that test is considered 0.
Base Value
Base value is the value of an element before any modifiers 
are applied. Unless otherwise specified, the base value of an 
element derived from a card is the value printed on that card.
Bearer
The bearer of a weakness is the investigator who started the 
game with the weakness in his or her deck or play area.
See “Weakness” on page 21.
Blank
If a card’s printed text box is considered “blank” by an ability, that 
text box is treated as if it did not have any of its printed content. 
Text and/or icons gained from another source are not blanked.
 = A card’s text box includes: traits, 
keywords, card text and abilities.
Campaign Play
A campaign is a series of interrelated scenarios in which each player 
plays the same investigator from one scenario to the next. As a 
campaign progresses, the investigator gains experience and trauma, 
and this is reflected by changes in his or her deck. Each decision 
made in a campaign may have repercussions in a later scenario.
When starting a campaign, follow the instructions for 
that campaign’s setup in the campaign guide.  After 
playing through a scenario during a campaign, record the 
specified results of that scenario in the campaign log.
Experience
After recording the results of a scenario, the investigators are 
ready to reflect on their experiences and purchase new cards 
for their decks. To do this, follow these steps, in order:
1. Count experience. Each investigator earns experience 
equal to the total victory value of all cards in the victory 
display plus or minus any bonuses or penalties indicated 
by the campaign guide for that resolution. This total is 
added to any unspent experience an investigator has 
recorded from previous scenarios in this campaign.
2. Purchase new cards. New cards may be purchased and added to 
a player’s deck by spending experience equal to the card’s level 
(denoted by a number of pips in the upper left hand corner of the 
card). While purchasing new cards, observe the following rules:
 = An investigator’s deckbuilding guidelines (found on the 
back of the investigator card) must be observed while 
that investigator is purchasing new cards. Only cards the 
investigator has access to may be purchased. The deck-size 
requirement must also be maintained, so that for each (non-
permanent) card purchased and added to a deck, a different 
card is removed from the deck. Weakness cards and cards 
that must be included in an investigator’s deck may not be 
removed while that investigator is purchasing new cards.
 = Each card costs experience equal to the card’s 
level, to a minimum of 1  (purchasing a level zero 
card still costs 1 experience). The number of pips 
beneath a card’s cost indicates the card’s level.
 = When purchasing a higher level version of a card with 
the same title, the investigator may choose to “upgrade” 
that card by paying only the difference in experience (to 
a minimum of 1) between the two cards and removing 
the lower level version of the card from his or her deck.
 = New cards are purchased (or upgraded) individually. If an 
investigator wishes to purchase more than 1 copy of a new card, 
each copy must be paid for separately, and one card must be 
removed from that investigator's deck for each copy purchased.
 = The above processes, and any specific instructions provided 
by the campaign guide, are the only methods by which a 
player may modify his or her deck during a campaign.
3. Record unspent experience. Each investigator records any 
unspent experience on the campaign log. This experience 
may be spent at a later time during this campaign.
5
RULES REFERENCE

Trauma
Trauma reflects permanent damage that has been 
done to an investigator’s health and/or psyche.
If an investigator is defeated in a scenario that investigator is 
eliminated from the scenario but not necessarily from the campaign. 
If an investigator is defeated by taking damage equal to his 
or her health, he or she suffers 1 physical trauma (recorded in 
the campaign log). For each physical trauma an investigator 
has, that investigator begins each subsequent scenario in the 
campaign with 1 damage. If an investigator has physical trauma 
equal to his or her printed health, the investigator is killed .
If an investigator is defeated by taking horror equal to his or 
her sanity, he or she suffers 1 mental trauma (recorded in the 
campaign log). For each mental trauma an investigator has, that 
investigator begins each subsequent scenario in the campaign 
with 1 horror. If an investigator has mental trauma equal to 
his or her printed sanity, the investigator is driven insane .
If an investigator is defeated by simultaneously taking damage 
equal to his or her health and horror equal to his or her 
sanity, he or she chooses which type of trauma to suffer.
If an investigator is killed or driven insane, that player must 
choose a new investigator to use in the next scenario, and 
creates a new deck for that investigator. Investigators that are 
killed or driven insane cannot be used for the remainder of the 
campaign (see “Killed/Insane Investigators” on page 13).
If a player attempts to choose a new investigator and 
there are no investigators remaining in the pool, the 
players have lost and the campaign ends.
Defeat by Card Ability
An investigator may be defeated by a card ability. A defeated 
investigator is eliminated from the game (see “Elimination” on page 
10). Should this occur, follow the instructions of the card ability 
to determine if there are any long-term repercussions of the defeat.
Advancing to Next Scenario
After completing a scenario, resolving its resolution, updating 
the campaign log, and purchasing any new cards, advance to the 
next scenario (sequentially) in the campaign, unless the scenario 
resolution explicitly directs the investigators to a different scenario.
Joining or Leaving a Campaign
Once a campaign has begun, players can freely drop in 
and out of the campaign in between scenarios. 
If a player leaves the campaign, do not delete that 
player’s information from the campaign log, as he or 
she may re-join at any time between scenarios.
If a new player joins the campaign, he or she must choose 
an investigator not previously used during this campaign. 
That player begins as if it were his or her first scenario in 
the campaign, with no experience and no trauma.
Cancel
Some card abilities can “cancel” other card or game 
effects. Cancel abilities interrupt the initiation of an 
effect, and prevent the effect from initiating.
 = Any time the effects of an ability are canceled, the ability 
(apart from its effects) is still regarded as initiated, and 
any costs have still been paid. The effects of the ability, 
however, are prevented from initiating and do not resolve.
 = If the effects of an event card are canceled, 
the card is still regarded as played, and it is 
still placed in its owner’s discard pile.
 = If the effects of a treachery card are canceled, the 
card is still regarded as having been drawn, and it 
is still placed in the encounter discard pile.
Cannot
The word “cannot” is absolute, and cannot be 
countermanded by other abilities.
Cardtypes
The game’s cardtypes are presented in Appendix IV, with detailed 
card anatomies (see “Appendix IV: Card Anatomy” on page 28).
 = If an ability causes a card to change its cardtype, 
it loses all other cardtypes it might possess and 
functions as would any card of the new cardtype.
See also: “Asset Cards” on page 4, “Enemy Cards” on page 
10, “Event Cards” on page 11, “Location Cards” on page 14, 
“Skill Cards” on page 18, “Treachery Cards” on page 20.
Chaos Tokens
Chaos tokens are revealed from the chaos bag during skill 
tests, to modify or influence the results of the skill test.
   —If any of these tokens are revealed for a skill 
test, resolve the effect for that symbol as indicated on the 
scenario reference card for the current scenario. 
—This is the auto-fail token. If this token is revealed for a 
skill test, it indicates the investigator automatically fails the 
test (see “Automatic Failure/Success” on page 5).
—This is the elder sign token. If this token is revealed 
for a skill test, resolve the  effect on the investigator card 
belonging to the player performing the skill test.
If a revealed chaos token (or the effect referenced by a 
chaos token) has a numerical modifier, that modifier is 
applied to the investigator’s skill value for this test.
See “ST.3 Reveal chaos token.” on page 26.
Clues
Clues represent the progress the investigators 
can make towards solving a mystery, unraveling a 
conspiracy, and/or advancing in a scenario.
 = The first time an investigator enters a location, that location 
is revealed (turned face-up) and a number of clues equal to 
that location’s clue value are placed on that location (from 
the token pool). Most clue values are conveyed as a “per 
investigator ( )” value. This may occur during setup.
6
RULES REFERENCE

 = A clue at a location can be discovered by successfully 
investigating the location (see “Investigate Action” on page 
13), or by a card ability. If an investigator discovers a 
clue, he or she takes the clue from the location and places it 
on his or her investigator card, under his or her control.
 = If there are no “ Objective  – ” requirements for advancing 
the current act, during any investigator’s turn the 
investigators may, as a group, spend the requisite number 
of clues (usually conveyed as a “per investigator” value) 
from their investigator cards to advance the act deck. 
This is normally done as a  player ability. Any or all 
investigators may contribute any number of clues towards 
the total number of clues required to advance the act.
 = A card ability that refers to clues “at a location” is referring to 
the undiscovered clues that are currently on that location.
See also: “Act Deck and Agenda Deck” on page 3, 
“Tokens, Running out of ” on page 20.
Collection
If an ability refers to a player’s collection (for example, 
“search the collection”) , the collection of cards from 
which that player’s deck was assembled is used. 
Example: Sean and Etienne are each using a deck built 
from Sean’s collection. If Etienne is instructed to “search 
the collection,” he searches Sean’s collection.
Constant Abilities
See “Ability” on page 2.
Control
See “Ownership and Control” on page 16.
Copy
A copy of a card is defined by title. A second copy of a card is any 
other card that shares the same title, regardless of cardtype, text, 
artwork, or any other differing characteristics between the cards.
Costs
There are two types of costs in the game: 
resource costs and ability costs.
A card’s resource cost is the numerical value that must be paid 
(in resources) to play the card from hand. To pay a resource cost, 
an investigator takes the specified number of resources from 
his or her resource pool and places them in the token pool.
Some triggered card abilities are presented in a “cost: 
effect” construct. In such a construct, the aspect preceding 
the colon indicates the ability costs that must be paid and 
any triggering conditions that must be met to trigger the 
ability. The aspect following the colon is the effect.
 = If multiple costs for a single card or ability require 
payment, those costs must be paid simultaneously.
 = Only the controller of a card or ability may pay its costs. Game 
elements another player controls may not be used to pay a cost.
 = When a player is exhausting, sacrificing, or otherwise 
using cards to pay costs, only cards that are in 
play and under that player’s control may be used, 
unless the cost specifies an out-of-play state.
 = If a cost requires a game element that is not in play, the player 
paying the cost may only use game elements that are in his or 
her game areas (such as his or her hand or deck) to pay the cost.
 = If the investigators are instructed to pay a cost as a group, 
each investigator (or each investigator in the group defined 
by the ability) may contribute to paying the cost.
 = An ability cannot initiate—and therefore its 
costs cannot be paid—if the resolution of its 
effect will not change the game state.
 = If an investigator takes damage or horror as a cost and 
reassigns any of it to an asset, the cost is still considered paid.
Dealing Damage/Horror
There are two types of afflictions that may beset an investigator 
in the game: damage and horror. Damage afflicts an investigator’s 
health, and horror afflicts an investigator’s sanity.
When an investigator or enemy is dealt damage and/
or horror, follow these steps, in order:
1. Assign Damage/Horror : Determine the amount of damage 
and/or horror being dealt. Place damage and/or horror 
tokens equal to the amount of damage and horror being dealt 
next to the cards that will be taking the damage/horror. 
 = When an investigator is dealt damage or horror, that investigator 
may assign it to eligible asset cards he or she controls. To be 
eligible, an asset card must have health in order to be assigned 
damage, and it must have sanity in order to be assigned horror. 
 = An asset cannot be assigned damage beyond the 
amount of damage it would take to defeat the card, 
and cannot be assigned horror beyond the amount 
of horror it would take to defeat the card. 
 = All damage/horror that cannot be assigned to an 
asset must be assigned to the investigator.
2. Apply Damage/Horror : Any assigned damage/horror that has 
not been prevented is now placed on each card to which it has 
been assigned, simultaneously. If no damage/horror is applied 
in this step, no damage/horror has been successfully dealt.
 = Abilities that prevent, reduce, or reassign damage and/or 
horror that is being dealt are resolved between steps 1 and 2.
 = After applying damage/horror, if an investigator has damage 
equal to or higher than his or her health or horror equal 
to or higher than his or her sanity, he or she is defeated. 
When an investigator is defeated, he or she is eliminated 
from the scenario (see “Elimination” on page 10).
 = After applying damage/horror, if an enemy has 
damage equal to or higher than its health, it is 
defeated and placed in the encounter discard pile (or 
in its owner’s discard pile if it is a weakness).
 = After applying damage/horror, if an asset has damage equal 
to or higher than its health or horror equal to or higher than 
its sanity, it is defeated and placed in its owner’s discard pile.
7
RULES REFERENCE

Deck
There are 4 main types of  decks that appear in 
any game: the Investigator Deck, the Encounter 
Deck, the Act Deck, and the Agenda Deck.
 = The order of cards within a deck may not be altered 
unless a player is instructed to do so by a card ability.
See also: “Investigator Deck” on page 13, “Encounter Deck” 
on page 10, “Act Deck and Agenda Deck” on page 3.
Deckbuilding
When building a custom deck, the following 
guidelines must be observed:
 = A player must choose exactly 1 investigator card.
 = A player’s investigator deck must include the exact 
number of player cards indicated on the back of his or 
her investigator card as the “ Deck Size.” Weaknesses, 
investigator-specific cards, and scenario cards that are added 
to a player’s deck do not count towards this number.
 =  A player’s investigator deck may not include more 
than 2 copies (by title) of any given player card.
 = Each standard player card in a player’s investigator deck 
must be chosen from among the “ Deckbuilding Options” 
available on the back of his or her investigator card.
 = Most investigators have 0 experience to spend at the 
beginning of a campaign, which means that they may only 
include level 0 cards in their decks. Some investigators, 
and/or some campaigns, may provide a player with 
additional experience at the beginning of a campaign, 
which can be used immediately to purchase higher 
level cards (see “Campaign Play” on page 5).
 = All other “ Deckbuilding Requirements” listed on the 
back of a player’s investigator card must be observed.
 = Each required random basic weakness is added to a 
player’s deck at the end of the deckbuilding process. 
 = Story Assets may not be included in a player’s deck unless 
the setup or resolution of a scenario grants that player 
permission to do so. These assets are indicated by the 
lack of a card level and the presence of an encounter 
set symbol (see “Asset Cards” on page 4).
 = During a campaign, players build a deck before playing the 
first scenario. In between scenarios, players can purchase 
new cards or upgrade cards in their deck following the 
rules found under “Campaign Play” on page 5.
Classes
Most player cards, including investigators, belong to one of 5 classes. 
Each class has its own distinct flavor and identity, as described below.
Guardians  () feel compelled to defend humanity, and 
thus go out of their way to combat the forces of the Mythos. 
They have a strong sense of duty and selflessness that drives 
them to protect others, and to hunt monsters down.
Mystics  () are drawn to and influenced by the arcane 
forces of the Mythos. Many have spell-casting abilities, able to 
manipulate the forces of the universe through magical talent.
Rogues  () are self-serving and out for themselves. 
Wily and opportunistic, they are always eager for 
a way to exploit their current situation.
Seekers () are primarily concerned with learning more about 
the world and about the Mythos. They wish to research forgotten 
lore, map out uncharted areas, and study strange creatures.
Survivors  () are everyday people in the wrong place 
at the wrong time, simply trying to survive. Ill-prepared 
and ill-equipped, Survivors are the underdogs, who rise 
to the occasion when their lives are threatened.
Some cards are not affiliated with any class; these cards are neutral.
Generally, investigators only have access to cards from their class. 
Some investigators have access to cards from other classes. Refer 
to the “Deckbuilding Options” on the back of an investigator 
card to view which cards an investigator has access to.
Defeat
Taking damage and/or horror may cause an 
investigator, enemy, or asset to be defeated.
 = If an investigator has as much or more damage on it as it has 
health (or as much or more horror on it as it has sanity), that 
investigator is defeated. An investigator might also be defeated 
by a card ability. When an investigator is defeated, he or she is 
eliminated from the scenario (see “Elimination” on page 10). 
 = In campaign play, an investigator that is defeated by taking 
damage equal to his or her health suffers 1 physical trauma. 
An investigator that is defeated by taking horror equal to 
his or her sanity suffers 1 mental trauma. Taking trauma 
may cause an investigator to be killed  or driven insane  (see 
“Campaign Play” on page 5 for more information).
 = If an enemy has as much or more damage on it as it has health, 
that enemy is defeated and placed on the encounter discard 
pile (or on its owner’s discard pile if it is a weakness).
 = If an asset with a health value has as much or more damage 
than it has health, it is defeated. If an asset with a sanity value 
has as much or more horror than it has sanity, it is defeated. 
A defeated asset is placed on its owner’s discard pile.
Delayed Effects
Some abilities create delayed effects. Such abilities specify a 
future timing point, or indicate a future condition that may 
arise, and dictate an effect that will happen at that time.
 = Each delayed effect initiates automatically and 
immediately (as a forced ability) if its future 
timing point or future condition occurs.
 = A delayed effect affects all specified entities 
that are in the specified game area and eligible 
at the time the delayed effect resolves.
8
RULES REFERENCE

Difficulty (level)
There are four levels of difficulty in Arkham Horror: The Card Game : 
Easy, Standard, Hard, and Expert. At the beginning of a campaign 
or standalone scenario, the players choose which difficulty level 
to use. The campaign setup section of that campaign or scenario’s 
Campaign Guide indicates which chaos tokens should be placed 
into the chaos bag when playing on each difficulty level.
 = When playing in Easy or Standard mode, use the “Easy/
Standard” side of each scenario’s reference card. When 
playing in Hard or Expert mode, use the “Hard/Expert” 
side of each scenario’s reference card instead.
Difficulty (skill tests)
The difficulty of a skill test is the target number an 
investigator is trying to equal or exceed with his or 
her modified skill value to pass that test.
 = When attacking an enemy, the base difficulty 
of the skill test is the enemy’s fight value.
 = When investigating a location, the base difficulty 
of the skill test is the location’s shroud value.
 = When attempting to evade an enemy, the base difficulty 
for the skill test is the enemy’s evade value.
 = When resolving a skill test created by a card ability, 
the base difficulty is indicated as a parenthetical 
value following  the indication of which skill is 
being tested. For example: Intellect (3).
See “Skill Test Timing” on page 26 for the full rules on skill tests.
Direct Damage, Direct Horror
If an ability causes a card to take direct damage or direct horror, 
that damage or horror must be assigned directly to the specified 
card, and cannot be assigned or re-assigned elsewhere. 
Discard Piles
Any time a card is discarded, it is placed faceup on top of its owner’s 
discard pile. Encounter cards are owned by the encounter deck.
 = Each discard pile is an out-of-play area.
 = Each investigator has his or her own discard pile, 
and the encounter deck has its own discard pile.
 = Each discard pile is open information, and may 
be looked at by any player at any time.
 = The order of cards in a discard pile may not be altered 
unless a player is instructed to do so by a card ability.
 = If multiple cards are discarded simultaneously, the 
owner of the cards may physically place them on top 
of his or her discard pile one at a time, in any order. If 
multiple encounter cards are discarded simultaneously, 
they are placed on top of the encounter discard pile 
in any order (determined by lead investigator).
 = Any ability that would shuffle a discard pile of zero 
cards back into a deck does not shuffle the deck.
Doom
Doom represents the progress the forces of the Mythos 
make towards completing foul rituals, summoning cosmic 
entities, and/or advancing a scenario’s agenda.
 = During each Mythos phase, 1 doom is placed on the 
current agenda (see “I. Mythos phase” on page 24).
 = If there are no “ Objective  – ” requirements for advancing the 
current agenda and the requisite amount of doom is in play 
(among the agenda and all cards in play), the agenda advances 
during the “Check doom threshold” step of the Mythos phase. 
Unless a card otherwise specifies that it can advance the 
agenda, this is the only time at which the agenda can advance.
 = Doom on cards other than the agenda (such as enemies, allies, 
locations, etc.) counts towards the amount of doom in play.
See also: “Act Deck and Agenda Deck” on page 3, 
“Tokens, Running out of ” on page 20.
Draw Action
“Draw” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
When an investigator takes this action, that investigator 
draws one card from his or her deck.
Drawing Cards
When a player is instructed to draw one or more 
cards, those cards are drawn from the top of his or her 
investigator deck and added to his or her hand.
When a player is instructed to draw one or more 
encounter cards, those cards are drawn from the top of 
the encounter deck, and resolved following the rules for 
drawing encounter cards under framework step “1.4 Each 
investigator draws 1 encounter card.” on page 24.
 = When a player draws two or more cards as the result of a single 
ability or game step, those cards are drawn simultaneously.  If a 
deck empties mid-draw, reset the deck and complete the draw.
 = There is no limit to the number of cards 
a player may draw each round.
 = If an investigator with an empty investigator deck needs 
to draw a card, that investigator shuffles his or her discard 
pile back into his or her deck, then draws the card, and 
upon completion of the entire draw takes one horror.
Effects
A card effect is any effect that arises from the resolution of 
ability text printed on, or gained by, a card. A framework effect 
is any effect that arises from the resolution of a framework 
event (see “Framework Event Details” on page 24).
 = Card effects may be preceded by costs, triggering conditions, 
play restrictions, and/or play permissions; such elements 
are not considered effects (see “Ability” on page 2).
 = Once initiated, players must resolve as much of each aspect of 
the effect as they are able, unless the effect uses the word “may.”
9
RULES REFERENCE

 = When a non-targeting effect attempts to interact with a 
number of entities (such as “draw 3 cards” or “search the 
top 5 cards of your deck”) that exceeds the number of 
entities that currently exist in the specified game area, 
the effect interacts with as many entities as possible.
 = The expiration of a lasting effect (or the cessation 
of a constant ability) is not considered to be 
generating a game state change by a card effect.
 = All aspects of an effect have timing priority over all 
“after...” triggering conditions that might arise as a 
consequence of that effect. (For example, if an effect reads 
“Gain 3 resources and draw 3 cards,” resolve both aspects 
of the effect (gaining resources and drawing cards) before 
initiating an ability that reads “After drawing a card...”)
See also: “Delayed Effects” on page 8, “Lasting Effects” on 
page 14, “Priority of Simultaneous Resolution” on page 17.
Elimination
A player is eliminated from a scenario any time his or her investigator 
is defeated, or if he or she resigns. The only manner in which 
eliminated investigators interact with the game when establishing “per 
investigator” values (see page 16). Any time a player is eliminated:
0. For the purpose of resolving weakness cards, the game has ended 
for the eliminated investigator. Trigger any “when the game ends” 
abilities on each weakness the eliminated investigator owns 
that is in play. Then, remove those weaknesses from the game.
1. The cards he or she controls in play and all of the 
cards in his or her out-of-play areas (such as hand, 
deck, discard pile) are removed from the game.
 = Any card that player owns but does not control 
that is in play remains in play, but if that card 
leaves play it is removed from the game.
2. All clue tokens that player possesses are placed at the location 
the investigator was at when he or she was eliminated, and all 
of that player’s resource tokens are returned to the token pool. 
3. All enemies engaged with that player are placed at the location 
the investigator was at when he or she was eliminated, unengaged 
but otherwise maintaining their current game state.
4. All other cards in the eliminated investigator’s threat 
area are placed in the appropriate discard pile.
5. If the lead investigator is eliminated, the remaining 
players (if any) choose a new lead investigator.
6. If there are no remaining players, the scenario 
ends. Refer to “no resolution was reached” entry 
for that scenario in the campaign guide.
Empty Location
An empty location is a location with no enemies or investigators at it.
Encounter Deck
The encounter deck contains the encounter cards 
(enemy, treachery, and story asset cards) the 
investigators may encounter during a scenario.
 = If the encounter deck is empty, shuffle the encounter 
discard pile back into the encounter deck.
Encounter Set
An encounter set is a collection of encounter cards, denoted by 
a common encounter set symbol near each card’s cardtype.
Enemy Cards
Enemies represent villains, cultists, ne’er-do-wells, 
terrible monsters, and unfathomable entities from 
alternate dimensions or the cosmos beyond.
When an enemy card is drawn by an investigator, that investigator 
must spawn it following any spawn direction the card bears (see 
“Spawn” on page 19). If the encountered enemy has no spawn 
direction, the enemy spawns engaged with the investigator 
encountering the card and is placed in that investigator’s threat area.
See “1.4 Each investigator draws 1 encounter card.” on page 24.
 = A ready, unengaged enemy engages any time it 
is at the same location as an investigator (see 
“Enemy Engagement” on page 10).
 = If an investigator is engaged with a ready enemy and takes 
an action other than to fight, to evade, or to activate a 
parley or resign ability, that enemy makes an attack of 
opportunity (see “Attack of Opportunity” on page 5).
 = Enemies with the hunter keyword move during the 
Enemy Phase (see “III. Enemy phase” on page 25).
 = Engaged enemies attack during the Enemy Phase 
(see “III. Enemy phase” on page 25).
Enemy Engagement
While an enemy card is in play, it is either engaged with an investigator 
(and placed in that investigator’s threat area), or it is unengaged and at 
a location (and placed at that location). Each enemy in an investigator’s 
threat area is considered to be at the same location as that investigator, 
and should the investigator move, the enemy remains engaged and 
moves to the new location simultaneously with the investigator.
Any time a ready unengaged enemy is at the same location 
as an investigator, it engages that investigator, and is placed 
in that investigator’s threat area. If there are multiple 
investigators at the same location as a ready unengaged enemy, 
follow the enemy’s prey instructions to determine which 
investigator is engaged. There is no limit on the number of 
enemies that can be engaged with a single investigator.
For example, a ready unengaged enemy immediately engages if:
 = It spawns at the same location as an investigator,
 = It moves into the same location as an investigator,
 = An investigator moves into the same location as it.
An exhausted unengaged enemy does not engage, but if an 
exhausted enemy at the same location as an investigator 
becomes ready, it engages as soon as it is readied. 
 = Note: An enemy with the Aloof keyword does not 
engage in the manner described above.
10
RULES REFERENCE

Enemy Phase
See “III. Enemy phase” on page 25.
Engage Action
“Engage” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
To engage an enemy at the same location (for example, 
this could be done to engage an exhausted enemy, an aloof 
enemy, or an enemy engaged with another investigator) , an 
investigator places the chosen enemy in his or her threat 
area. The investigator and the enemy are now engaged.
 = An investigator may perform the engage action to engage 
an enemy that is engaged with a different investigator 
at the same location. The enemy simultaneously 
disengages from the previous investigator and 
engages the investigator performing the action.
 = An investigator cannot use the engage action to engage 
an enemy he or she is already engaged with.
Enters Play
The phrase “enters play” refers to any time a card makes 
a transition from an out-of-play area into a play area 
(see “In Play and Out of Play” on page 13).
 = If an ability (either on the card itself or from another 
card) causes a card to enter play in a state different 
from that specified by the rules, there is no transition 
to that state. It merely enters play in that state. 
Evade, Evade Action
“Evade” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
To evade an enemy engaged with an investigator, that 
investigator makes an agility test against the enemy’s 
evade value (see “Skill Tests” on page 18).
If the test is successful, the investigator successfully evades 
the enemy (see below). (This occurs during step 7 of the skill 
test, per “ST.7 Apply skill test results.” on page 26.)
If the test fails, the investigator does not evade the 
enemy, and it remains engaged with him or her.
 = If an ability “automatically” evades 1 or more enemies, 
no skill test is made for the evasion attempt.
 = Any time an enemy is evaded (whether by an evade action, 
or by card ability), the enemy is exhausted (if it was ready) 
and the engagement is broken. Move the enemy from the 
investigator’s threat area to the investigator’s location to 
mark that it is no longer engaged with that investigator.
 = Unlike the fight and engage action, an investigator 
can only perform an evade action against 
an enemy engaged with him or her.
Event Cards
Event cards represent tactical actions, maneuvers, spells, tricks, 
and other instantaneous effects at a player’s disposal.
 = If an event card does not have the fast keyword, it may 
only be played from a player’s hand by performing a 
“Play” action during his or her turn. You must follow 
all play permissions/restrictions that card has.
 = A fast event card may be played from a player’s hand any time 
its play instructions specify (see “Fast” on page 11).
 = Any time a player plays an event card, its costs are paid, its 
effects are resolved (or canceled), and the card is placed in its 
owner’s discard pile after those effects resolve (or are canceled).
 = If the effects of an event card are canceled, the card 
is still considered to have been played, and its costs 
remain paid. Only the effects have been canceled.
 = Playing an event card from hand (or not playing 
it) is always optional for a player, unless the event 
uses the word “must” in its play instructions.
 = An event card cannot be played unless the resolution of 
its effect has the potential to change the game state.
Exceptional
Exceptional is a deckbuilding keyword ability.
 = A card with the exceptional keyword costs twice 
its printed experience cost to purchase.
 =  A player’s investigator deck cannot include more than 
1 copy (by title) of any given exceptional card.
Exhaust, Exhausted
Occasionally, a card ability or game step will cause a card to exhaust to 
indicate it has been used to perform a function. When a card exhausts, 
it is rotated 90 degrees. A card in this state is said to be exhausted.
 = An exhausted card cannot exhaust again until it is 
ready (typically by a game step or card ability).
Experience
See “Campaign Play” on page 5.
Fast
Fast is a keyword ability.  A fast card does not cost an action 
to be played and is not played using the “Play” action.
 = A fast event card may be played from a player’s hand any 
time its play instructions specify. If the instructions specify 
when/after a timing point, the card may be played as if 
the described timing point were a triggering condition for 
playing the card. If the instructions specify a duration or 
period of time, the card may be played during any player 
window within that period. If the instructions specify both 
a when/after timing point and a duration or period of time, 
the card may be played in reference to any instance of the 
specified triggering condition within that time period.
11
RULES REFERENCE

 = A fast asset may be played by an investigator 
during any player window on his or her turn.
 = Because fast cards do not cost actions to play, 
they do not provoke attacks of opportunity (see 
“Attack of Opportunity” on page 5).
Fight Action
“Fight” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
To fight an enemy at his or her location, an investigator resolves 
an attack against that enemy by making a combat test against 
the enemy’s fight value (see “Skill Tests” on page 18).
If the test is successful, the attack succeeds and damage is 
dealt to the attacked enemy. The default damage dealt by an 
attack is 1. Some weapons, spells, or other special attacks may 
modify this damage. (This occurs during step 7 of the skill 
test, per “ST.7 Apply skill test results.” on page 26.)
If the test fails, no damage is dealt to the attacked enemy. 
However, if an investigator fails this test against an enemy that 
is engaged with another single investigator, the damage of the 
attack is dealt to the investigator engaged with that enemy.
 = An investigator may fight any enemy at his or her location, 
including: an enemy he or she is engaged with, an unengaged 
enemy at the same location, or an enemy engaged with 
another investigator who is at the same location.
Flavor Text
Flavor text is additional text that provides thematic 
context to a card and/or its abilities. Flavor text does 
not interact with the game in any manner.
Forced Abilities
See “Ability” on page 2.
Gains
The word “gains” is used in multiple contexts.
 = If a player gains one or more resources, the player 
takes the specified number of resources from the token 
pool and adds them to his or her resource pool.
 = If an investigator gains an action, that investigator is permitted 
one additional action to spend during the specified time period.
 = If a card gains a characteristic (such as an icon, a 
trait, a keyword, or ability text), the card functions 
as if it possesses the gained characteristic. 
 = “Gained” characteristics are not considered to be “printed” 
on the card. If an ability refers to the printed characteristics 
of a card, it does not refer to gained characteristics.
Game
A ‘game’ consists of a single scenario, not an entire 
campaign. In a campaign, the beginning of a new 
scenario marks the start of a new game.
Hand Size
See “IV. Upkeep phase” on page 25.
Heal
“Heal” is an instruction to remove the indicated amount of 
damage or the indicated amount of horror from a card.
 = If a card is healed for more damage or horror than it currently 
has on it, remove as much of the indicated amount as possible.
Health and Damage
Health represents a card’s physical fortitude. Damage tracks the 
physical harm that has been done to a card during a scenario.
 = Any time a card takes damage, place a number of damage 
tokens equal to the amount of damage just taken on the 
card (see “Dealing Damage/Horror” on page 7).
 = If an investigator has damage on him or her equal to or 
greater than his or her health, that investigator is defeated. 
When an investigator is defeated, he or she is eliminated 
from the scenario (see “Elimination” on page 10).
 = In campaign play, an investigator that is defeated by taking 
damage equal to his or her health suffers 1 physical trauma. 
Taking physical trauma may cause an investigator to be killed  
(see “Campaign Play” on page 5 for more information).
 = If an enemy has damage on it equal to or greater than its health, 
that enemy is defeated and placed in the encounter discard pile.
 = If an asset with a health value has damage on it 
equal to or greater than its health, it is defeated 
and placed on its owner’s discard pile.
 = An asset card without a health value is not 
considered to have a health of 0, cannot gain health, 
and cannot have damage assigned to it.
 = A card’s “remaining health” is its base health minus the amount 
of damage on it, plus or minus any active health modifiers.
See also: “Direct Damage, Direct Horror” on page 9.
Hunter
Hunter is a keyword ability.
During the enemy phase (in framework step 3.2), each ready, 
unengaged enemy with the hunter keyword moves to a connecting 
location, along the shortest path towards the nearest investigator. 
Enemies at a location with one or more investigators do not move.
 =  If there are multiple equidistant investigators who qualify as 
“the nearest investigator,” the enemy moves towards the one 
of those who best meets its prey instructions. If none do, or 
if the enemy has no prey instructions, the lead investigator 
may choose an investigator for the enemy to move towards.
 = If a hunter enemy would be compelled to a location to which 
the move is blocked by a card ability, the enemy does not move.
See also: “Prey” on page 17.
12
RULES REFERENCE

Immune
If a card is immune to a specified set of effects (for example, 
“immune to treachery card effects,” or “immune to player card 
effects”), it cannot be affected by or chosen to be affected by 
effects belonging to that set. Only the card itself is protected, 
and peripheral entities associated with an immune card (such 
as attached assets, tokens placed on, or abilities originating 
from an immune card) are not themselves immune.
 = If a card gains immunity to an effect, pre-existing lasting 
effects that have been applied to the card are not removed. 
If a card loses immunity to an effect, pre-existing lasting 
effects of that nature are not applied to the card.
 = Immunity only protects a card from effects. 
It does not protect a card from costs.
In Play and Out of Play
The cards that a player controls in his or her 
play area are considered in play.
The current act, the current agenda, each location in the 
play area, and each encounter card in a investigator’s 
threat area or at a location, are all considered in play.
Out of play refers to the cards in a player’s hand, in any deck, 
in any discard pile, in the victory display, and those that 
have been set aside and/or removed from the game.
 = A card enters play when it transitions from an 
out-of-play origin to an in play area.
 = A card leaves play when it transitions from a in 
play area to an out-of-play destination.
 = Tokens on in play cards are considered in play. Resources in 
each investigator’s resource pool are also considered in play.
In Player Order
If the players are instructed to perform a sequence “in player 
order,” the lead investigator performs his or her part of the 
sequence first, followed by the other players in clockwise 
order. The phrase “the next player” is used in this context to 
refer to the next player (clockwise) to act in player order.
Instead
The word “instead” is indicative of a replacement effect. A 
replacement effect is an effect that replaces the resolution of a 
triggering condition with an alternate means of resolution.
 = If multiple replacement effects are initiated against the same 
triggering condition and create a conflict in how to resolve the 
triggering condition, the most recent replacement effect is the 
one that is used for the resolution of the triggering condition.
 = The word “would” is used to define the triggering condition 
of some abilities, and establishes a higher priority for those 
abilities than abilities referencing the same triggering 
condition without the word “would.” (For instance, “When 
X would occur” resolves before “When X occurs.”)
 = If a replacement effect that uses the word “would” 
changes the nature of a triggering condition, the 
original triggering condition is replaced with the new 
triggering condition. No further abilities referencing 
the original triggering condition may be used.
Investigate Action
“Investigate” is an action an investigator may take 
during his or her turn in the investigation phase.
Each time an investigator takes this action, he or she 
makes an intellect test against the shroud value of 
that location (see “Skill Tests” on page 18).
If the test is successful, the investigator has succeeded in 
investigating the location, he or she discovers one clue at 
the location. (This occurs during step 7 of the skill test, 
per “ST.7 Apply skill test results.” on page 26.)
Any time an investigator discovers a clue from a location, 
that player takes the clue from the location and places it on 
his or her investigator card, under his or her control.
If the test is failed, the investigator has failed in investigating the 
location. No clues are discovered during step 7 of the skill test.
Investigation Phase
See “II. Investigation phase” on page 24.
Investigator Deck
A player’s “investigator deck” is the deck that contains that 
player’s asset, event, skill, and weakness cards. A reference to 
“your deck” refers to the investigator deck under your control.
Keywords
A keyword is a card ability which conveys specific rules to its 
card. Each keyword has its own rules which can be found in the 
keyword’s own section of the glossary. The keywords in this game 
are: aloof, fast, hunter, massive, peril, retaliate, surge, uses. 
 = There are also two deckbuilding keywords: exceptional 
and permanent. Deckbuilding keywords affect deck 
customization while building and/or leveling up a 
deck. They have no effect during gameplay. There are no 
exceptional or permanent cards in the core set—each of 
these keywords will be presented in future expansions.
 = A single card that has and/or is gaining the 
same keyword from multiple sources functions 
as if it has one instance of that keyword.
 = The initiation of any keyword which uses the word 
“may” in its keyword description is optional. The 
application of all other keywords is mandatory.
See “Ability” on page 2.
Killed/Insane Investigators
During campaign play, investigators who are killed or 
driven insane must be recorded in your campaign log and 
cannot be used for the remainder of the campaign.
13
RULES REFERENCE

 = An investigator with physical trauma equal to or 
higher than his or her printed health is killed.
 = An investigator with mental trauma equal to or higher 
than his or her printed sanity is driven insane.
 = An investigator may also be killed or driven insane 
by card ability, or during a scenario’s resolution.
 = When playing a standalone scenario, there is no practical 
difference between being killed, driven insane, or defeated.
See “Campaign Play” on page 5.
Lasting Effects
Some card abilities create conditions that affect the game state 
for a specified duration (for example, “until the end of the phase” 
or “ for this skill test”) . Such effects are known as lasting effects.
 = A lasting effect persists beyond the resolution of the 
ability that created it, for the duration specified by the 
effect. The effect continues to affect the game state for 
the specified duration regardless of whether the card 
that created the lasting effect is or remains in play.
 = If a lasting effect affects in-play cards (or cards in a specified 
area), it is only applied to cards that are in play (or the 
specified area) when the lasting effect is established. 
Cards that enter play (or the specified area) after its 
establishment are not affected by the lasting effect.
 = A lasting effect expires as soon as the timing point specified 
by its duration is reached. This means that an “until the 
end of the phase” lasting effect expires before an “at the 
end of the phase” ability or delayed effect may initiate.
 = A lasting effect that expires at the end of a specific time 
period can only be initiated during that time period.
Lead Investigator
The lead investigator is sometimes required to make important 
scenario decisions. At the beginning of a scenario, the 
investigators choose a lead investigator. If they cannot agree 
on a choice, a lead investigator is chosen at random.
 = If there are ever multiple valid options for a choice or 
decision that must be made (for example, a hunter enemy that 
could move in two different directions) , the lead investigator 
is the final arbiter in choosing among those options.
 = If the lead investigator is eliminated, the remaining 
players (if any) choose a new lead investigator.
Leaves Play
The phrase “leaves play” refers to any time a card makes 
a transition from an in-play state to an out-of-play state 
(see “In Play and Out of Play” on page 13).
If a card leaves play, the following consequences occur 
simultaneously with the card leaving play:
 = All tokens on the card are returned to the token pool.
 = All attachments on the card are discarded.
 = All lasting effects and/or delayed effects affecting 
the card while it was in play expire for that card.
Limits and Maximums
“Limit X per [period] ” is a limit that appears on cards that 
remain in play through the resolution of an ability’s effect. 
Each instance of an ability with such a limit may be initiated 
X times during the designated period. If a card leaves play and 
re-enters play during the same period, the card is considered 
to be bringing a new instance of the ability to the game.
“Limit X  per [card/game element]” is a limit that appears on 
attachment cards, and restricts the number of copies of that card (by 
title) that can be attached to each designated card or game element.
 = Unless stated otherwise,  limits are player specific. 
 = A “group limit,” however, applies to the entire group 
of investigators. (For example, if an investigator triggers 
an ability that is “group limit once per game,” no other 
investigator may trigger that ability during that game.)
“Max X per [period] ” imposes a maximum across all copies of 
a card (by title) for all players. Generally, this phrase imposes a 
maximum number of times that copies of that card can be played 
during the designated time period. If a maximum includes the 
word “committed” (For example, “Max 1 committed per skill test” ), 
it imposes a maximum number of copies of that card that can be 
committed to skill tests during the designated period. If a maximum 
appears as part of an ability, it imposes a maximum number of 
times that ability can be initiated from all copies (by title) of cards 
bearing that ability (including itself), during the designated period.
If the effects of a card or ability with a limit or maximum 
are canceled, it is still counted against the limit/
maximum, because the ability has been initiated.
Location Cards
Location cards represent the places the investigators 
may explore during a scenario.
 = Use each investigator’s mini-card to indicate 
which location he or she is at.
 = While an investigator is at a location, that investigator, 
each of his or her assets, and each card in that 
investigator’s threat area is at the same location.
 = Locations enter play in an “ unrevealed” state, so that 
the side with no shroud value and/or clue value is 
faceup. Do not read the “revealed” side at this time.
 = The first time a location is entered by an investigator, 
that location is revealed by turning it to its other side 
and placing a number of clues on it equal to its clue 
value (this may occur during setup). Most clue values 
are conveyed as a “per investigator” ( ) value.
 = A location with its shroud/clue value side 
faceup is in the “revealed” state.
14
RULES REFERENCE

Massive
Massive is a keyword ability. A ready enemy with the 
massive keyword is considered to be engaged with 
each investigator at the same location as it.
 = An exhausted enemy with the massive keyword is not 
considered to be engaged with any investigators.
 = An enemy with the massive keyword cannot be 
placed in an investigator’s threat area.
 = When an enemy with the massive keyword attacks 
during the enemy phase, resolve its (full) attack against 
each investigator it is engaged with, one investigator 
at a time. The lead investigator chooses the order in 
which these attacks resolve. The massive enemy does not 
exhaust until its final attack of the phase resolves.
 = When an enemy with the massive keyword makes 
an attack of opportunity, that attack only resolves 
against the investigator who provoked the attack.
 = A massive enemy does not move with an engaged investigator 
who moves away from the massive enemy’s location.
 = If an investigator fails a combat test against a massive 
enemy, no damage is dealt to the engaged investigators.
May
The word “may” indicates that a specified player has the option 
to do that which follows. If no player is specified, the option is 
granted to the controller of the card with the ability in question.
Modifiers
Some abilities cause values or quantities of characteristics to be 
modified. The game state constantly checks and (if necessary) updates 
the count of any variable value or quantity that is being modified.
Any time a new modifier is applied (or removed), the 
entire quantity is recalculated from the start, considering 
the unmodified base value and all active modifiers.
 = When calculating a value, treat all modifiers as being 
applied simultaneously. However, while performing the 
calculation, all additive and subtractive modifiers are 
calculated before doubling and/or halving modifiers.
 = Fractional values are rounded up after 
all modifiers have been applied.
 = A quantity on a card (such as a stat, an icon, a number of 
instances of a trait or keyword) cannot be reduced so that it 
functions with a value below zero. Negative modifiers in excess 
of a value’s current quantity can be applied, but, after all active 
modifiers have been applied, any resultant value below zero is 
treated as zero. (For example: Danny tests agility and reveals a 
–8 chaos token. When applied to his agility of 4, this would reduce 
his skill value to –4. However, his agility cannot be reduced so that 
it functions with a value below zero. While the –8 modifier still 
exists, his agility is treated as zero. If Danny were to play “Lucky!” 
to receive a +2 bonus to the test, this bonus would not be applied 
to the functioning skill value of zero; but rather, it is applied in 
conjunction with all active modifiers. Danny’s agility would then 
be calculated as follows: base skill 4, –8 from chaos token, +2 
from “Lucky!” for a total of –2, which is still treated as zero.)
Move
Any time an entity (an investigator or enemy) moves, 
transfer that enemy card or investigator’s mini card 
from its current location to a different location.
 = Unless otherwise specified by the move effect or ability, 
the moving entity must move to a connecting location. 
Connecting locations are identified on the location card 
representing the entity’s current location, as shown below. 
 = Any time an entity moves, it is considered to leave the previous 
location, and to enter the new location, simultaneously. 
 = If an entity is “moved to…” a specific location, the 
entity is moved directly to that location, and does 
not pass through other locations en route.
 = If an investigator moves to an unrevealed location, that 
location is revealed by turning it to its other side, and placing 
a number of clues on it equal to its clue value. Most clue 
values are conveyed as a “per investigator” ( ) value.
 = If an enemy moves to an unrevealed location, 
that location remains unrevealed.
 = Game elements (tokens or cards) may also be 
moved by card abilities from one card to another, 
or from one game area to another game area.
 = When an entity or game element moves, it cannot move to its 
same (current) placement. If there is no valid destination for a 
move, the move cannot be attempted.
Move Action
“Move” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
When an investigator takes this action, move that 
investigator (using his or her mini card) to any other 
location that is marked as a connecting location on his 
or her current location (see “Move” on page 15).
Mulligan
After a player draws a starting hand during setup, that player 
has a single opportunity to declare a mulligan on any number 
of the drawn cards he or she does not wish to keep in his or her 
© 2016 FFGIllus. Andreas Rocha 12910/20
LOCATION
The campus is quiet and lonely. Several of the buildings have 
been left unlocked for students and faculty  
working late into the night.
Victory 1.
: Search the top 6 cards of your deck 
for a T ome or Spell card and add it to your hand. 
Shuffle your deck.
Miskatonic University
Arkham.
2244
© 2016 FFGIllus. Ed Mattinian 1256/20
LOCATION
Arkham. Central.
There is something unsettling about the water of the 
Miskatonic River tonight. It ripples and bubbles as though 
something is moving beneath the surface.
Rivertown
11 11
An investigator may 
travel from Rivertown 
to Miskatonic 
University.
15
RULES REFERENCE

starting hand. These cards are set aside, and an equivalent number 
of cards are drawn and added to the player’s starting hand. The 
set-aside cards are then shuffled back into the player’s deck.
 = Players take or forgo the opportunity 
to mulligan in player order.
Must
If an investigator is instructed that he or she “must” choose 
among multiple options, the investigator is compelled to choose 
an option that has the potential to change the game state.
 = In the absence of the word “must” while choosing 
among multiple options, any option may be 
chosen upon the resolution of the effect—even an 
option that does not change the game state.
Mythos Phase
See “I. Mythos phase” on page 24.
Nearest
Some card abilities reference the “nearest” entity. Nearest 
refers to the entity of the specified kind at a location that can be 
reached in the fewest number of connections, even if one or more 
of those connections are blocked by another card ability. The 
path to the nearest entity is the “shortest” path to that entity.
Ownership and Control
A card’s owner is the player whose deck (or game 
area) held the card at the start of the game.
A player controls the cards located in his or her out-of- play 
game areas (such as the hand, deck, discard pile).
The scenario controls the cards in its out-of-play game areas (such as 
the encounter, act, and agenda decks, and the encounter discard pile).
 = Cards by default enter play under their owner’s control. Some 
abilities may cause cards to change control during a game.
 = If a card would enter an out-of-play area that does not 
belong to the card’s owner, the card is physically placed in 
its owner’s equivalent out-of-play area instead. The card is 
considered to have entered its controller’s out-of-play area, 
and only the physical placement of the card is adjusted.
Parley
Some abilities are identified with a Parley action 
designator. Such abilities are initiated using the “Activate” 
action (see “Activate Action” on page 4).
Per Investigator ()
When the  symbol appears after a value, that value is multiplied 
by the number of investigators who started the scenario.
 = The “per investigator” multiplication is done before all 
other modifiers, and the product of this multiplication 
is treated as the printed value of the card.
 = Text that uses the phrase “per investigator” also 
counts the number of investigators who started the 
scenario, and is applied before all other modifiers.
 = If investigators have been eliminated from the scenario, 
they still count toward “per investigator” values.
Peril
Peril is a keyword ability.
While resolving the drawing of an encounter card with the peril 
keyword, an investigator cannot confer with the other players. Those 
players cannot play cards, trigger abilities, or commit cards to that 
investigator’s skill test(s) while the peril encounter is resolving.
Permanent
Permanent is a deckbuilding keyword ability.
 = A card with the permanent keyword does 
not count towards your deck size.
 = A card with the permanent keyword still counts 
as being part of your deck and must therefore 
adhere to all other deckbuilding restrictions.
 = A card with the permanent keyword starts each game in play 
and is not shuffled into your investigator deck during setup.
 = A card with the permanent keyword cannot 
leave play (except by elimination).
Play
To play a card, an investigator must pay the card’s 
resource cost and meet any applicable play restrictions 
and conditions. Most cards can only be played by taking 
a play action (see “Play Action” on page 16).
A card with the fast keyword is not played during a play action. 
Such a card may be played any time its specified triggering 
condition is met or, if it has no triggering condition, during 
an appropriate player window (see “Fast” on page 11).
Any time an event card is played, its effects are resolved 
and it is then placed in its owner’s discard pile.
Any time an asset is played, it is placed in the investigator’s 
play area and remains in play until an ability or game 
effect causes it to leave play. Most assets take up one or 
more slots while in play (see “Slots” on page 19).
Skill cards are not be “played.” These cards are committed  to a 
skill test from a player’s hand in order to use their abilities.
See also: “Appendix I: Initiation Sequence” on page 22, “Play 
Restrictions, Permissions, and Instructions” on page 17.
Play Action
“Play” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
When an investigator takes this action, that investigator 
selects an asset or event card in his or her hand, pays its 
resource cost, and plays it (see “Play” on page 16).
16
RULES REFERENCE

 = Cards with the “fast” keyword are not played by 
using this action (see “Fast” on page 11).
 = Skill cards are not “played.” These cards are committed  to a 
skill test from a player’s hand in order to use their abilities.
Play Restrictions, Permissions, and Instructions
Many cards and abilities contain specific instructions pertaining to 
when or how they may or may not be used, or to specific conditions 
that must be true in order to use them. In order to use such an ability 
or to play such a card, its play restrictions must be observed.
A permission allows a player to play a card or use an ability 
outside the timing specifications provided by the game rules.
A play instruction describes the timing point at which, and/
or time period during which, an event card may be played.
Prey
Given the opportunity, some enemies will pursue a defined 
investigator. These enemies are identified with the bold word “ prey” in 
their text box, followed by instructions on whom they should engage.
 = If an enemy that is about to automatically engage an 
investigator at its location has multiple options of whom to 
engage, that enemy engages the investigator who best meets 
its “prey” instructions (if multiple investigators are tied in 
meeting these instructions, the lead investigator may decide 
among them) (see “Enemy Engagement” on page 10).
 = If an enemy that is moving towards the nearest investigator has 
a choice between multiple equidistant investigators, that enemy 
must select among those investigators the one who best meets 
its “prey” instructions. (If multiple equidistant investigators 
meet the prey criteria, the lead investigator decides among 
those investigators. See “Hunter” on page 12.)
 = If an enemy’s prey instructions contain the word “only,” that 
enemy only moves towards and engages that investigator (as 
if it were the only investigator in play), and ignores all other 
investigators while moving and engaging. Other investigators 
may use the engage action or card abilities to engage the enemy.
 = Prey has no immediate effect on where an enemy 
will spawn (see “Spawn” on page 19).
Printed
The word “printed” refers to the text, characteristic, icon, 
or value that is physically printed on the card.
Priority of Simultaneous Resolution
If an effect affects multiple players simultaneously, but the players 
must individually make choices to resolve the effect, these choices 
are made in player order. Once all necessary choices have been 
made, the effect resolves simultaneously upon all affected entities.
 = If two or more forced abilities (including delayed effects) 
would resolve at the same time, the lead investigator 
determines the order in which the abilities resolve.
 = If two or more constant abilities and/or lasting effects 
cannot be applied simultaneously, the lead investigator 
determines the order in which they are applied.
Put into Play
Some card abilities cause a card to be “put into play.” Such abilities 
place the card directly into play from an out-of-play state.
 = The resource cost of a card being put into play  is not paid .
 = Unless otherwise stated by the put into play ability, cards 
that enter play in this manner must do so in a play area 
that satisfies the standard game rules associated with 
playing or drawing (for encounter cards) that card.
 = A card that has been put into play is not 
considered to have been played or drawn.
Qualifiers
If card text includes a qualifier followed by multiple terms, 
the qualifier applies to each term in the list. (For example, 
in the phrase “each unique ally and item,” the word “unique” 
is a qualifier that applies both to “ally” and to “item.”)
Ready
A card that is in an upright state so that its controller can 
read its text from left to right is considered ready.
 = The default state in which cards enter play is ready.
 = When an exhausted card readies, it is returned to the 
upright state. It is then said to be in a ready state. 
 = A ready card cannot ready again (it must first be 
exhausted, typically by a game step or card ability).
Removed from Game
A card that has been removed from the game is placed away 
from the game area and has no further interaction with the 
game in any manner for the duration of its removal.
If there is no specified duration, a card that has been removed 
from the game is considered removed until the end of the game.
Resign
Some abilities are identified with a Resign  action 
designator. Such abilities are initiated using the “Activate” 
action (see “Activate Action” on page 4).
 = When an investigator resigns, the investigator is eliminated by 
resignation (see “Elimination” on page 10.) An investigator 
who resigns is not considered to have been defeated.
Resource Action
“Resource” is an action an investigator may take during 
his or her turn in the investigation phase.
When an investigator takes this action, that investigator 
gains one resource by taking it from the token pool 
and adding it to his or her resource pool.
17
RULES REFERENCE

Resources
Resources represent the various means of acquiring 
new cards at an investigator’s disposal – supplies, 
money, tools, knowledge, spell components, etc.
 = In order to play a card or use an ability that costs resources, an 
investigator must pay that card or ability’s resource cost by taking 
the specified number of resources from his or her resource pool 
and returning them to the token pool (see “Costs” on page 7).
 = Resources can be gained by performing the “Resource” 
action (see “Resource Action” on page 17).
 = Investigators acquire one resource during each 
Upkeep phase (see “4.4 Each investigator draws 1 
card and gains 1 resource.” on page 25).
See also: “Tokens, Running out of ” on page 20.
Retaliate
Retaliate is a keyword ability.
Each time an investigator fails a skill test while attacking a ready 
enemy with the retaliate keyword, after applying all results for that skill 
test, that enemy performs an attack against the attacking investigator. 
An enemy does not exhaust after performing a retaliate attack.
 = This attack occurs whether the enemy is engaged 
with the attacking investigator or not.
Revelation
A revelation ability may appear on encounter 
cards or on weakness cards.
 = When an investigator draws an encounter card, that 
investigator must resolve all “ Revelation – ” abilities on the 
card. This occurs before the card enters play, or in the case 
of a treachery card, before it is placed in the discard pile.
 = When a weakness card enters an investigator’s hand, 
that investigator must immediately resolve all revelation 
abilities on the card as if it were just drawn.
Sanity and Horror
Sanity represents a card’s mental and emotional 
fortitude. Horror tracks the harm that has been done 
to a card’s psyche by exposure to the Mythos. 
 = When a card takes horror, place a number of horror 
tokens equal to the amount of horror just taken on the 
card (see “Dealing Damage/Horror” on page 7).
 = If an investigator has horror on him or her equal to or 
greater than his or her sanity, that investigator is defeated. 
When an investigator is defeated, he or she is eliminated 
from the scenario (see “Elimination” on page 10).
 = In campaign play, an investigator that is defeated by taking 
horror equal to his or her sanity suffers 1 mental trauma. Taking 
mental trauma may cause an investigator to be driven insane  
(see “Campaign Play” on page 5 for more information).
 = If an asset with a sanity value has horror on it equal to or greater 
than its sanity, it is defeated and placed on its owner’s discard pile.
 = A card’s “remaining sanity” is its base sanity minus the amount 
of horror on that card, plus or minus any active sanity modifiers.
 = An asset card without a sanity value is not 
considered to have a sanity of 0, cannot gain 
sanity, and cannot have horror assigned to it.
See also: “Direct Damage, Direct Horror” on page 9.
Set Aside
Some scenarios instruct the players to set aside specific cards. 
Set-aside cards have no interaction with the game until they are 
referenced by instructions within the scenario or by a card ability.
Search
When a player is instructed to search for a card, that player 
is permitted to look at all of the cards in the searched area 
without revealing those cards to the other players.
 = If an effect searches an entire deck, the deck must 
be shuffled upon completion of the search.
 = When resolving a search effect, a player is obligated 
to find the object of the search should one or more 
eligible options be found within the searched area.
 = While cards are in the process of being searched, they are 
not considered to have left their game area of origin.
Self-Referential Text
When a card’s ability text refers to its own title, it is referring 
to itself only, and not to other copies (by title) of the card.
Self-referential abilities using the word “this” (e.g. “this card”) refer only 
to the card on which the ability is located, and not to copies of that card.
Skill Cards
Skill cards represent innate or learned attributes or character 
traits that improve an investigator’s skill tests.
Skill cards are not played from a player’s hand. In order to resolve 
their abilities, skill cards must be committed  to a skill test.
If a skill card is committed to a skill test, its ability may be used 
during the resolution of that skill test, as specified on the card.
See “Skill Test Timing” on page 26.
Skill Tests
A number of situations in the game require an investigator to 
make a skill test, using one of his or her four skills: willpower ( ), 
intellect (), combat (), or agility ( ). A skill test pits 
the investigator’s value in a specified skill against a difficulty 
value that is determined by the ability or game step that 
initiated the test. The investigator is attempting to match or 
exceed this difficulty value in order to succeed at the test.
A skill test is often referred to as a test of the specified skill. (For 
example: “agility test,” “combat test,” “willpower test,” or “intellect test.”)
See “Skill Test Timing” on page 26.
18
RULES REFERENCE

Slots
Each investigator has a number of specific slots that can be 
filled at any given moment. Each asset in an investigator’s 
play area or threat area with a slot symbol is held in a slot 
of that type. Slots limit the number of asset cards the 
investigator is permitted to have in play simultaneously.
The slots normally available to an investigator are:
 = 1 accessory slot
 = 1 body slot
 = 1 ally slot
 = 2 hand slots
 = 2 arcane slots
If an asset has no slot symbols on it, it does not take up any of the 
above slots. There is no limit to the number of slot-less assets an 
investigator can have in play.  The following symbols (on an asset)
indicate which slot(s) that asset fills:
If playing or gaining control of an asset would put an investigator 
above his or her slot limit for that type of asset, the investigator 
must choose and discard other assets under his or her control 
simultaneously with the new asset entering the slot.
Spawn
Some enemies, when drawn from the encounter 
deck, spawn in a particular location, indicated by 
a bold “spawn” instruction in the text box.
 = An enemy’s spawn instruction resolves as the enemy 
enters play, regardless of how it entered play.
 = If an enemy has no spawn  instruction, it spawns 
engaged with the investigator who drew it.
 = If an enemy has no legal location to spawn at (for example, 
if its spawn  instruction directs it to a specific location that 
is not in play, or if no location in play satisfies its “spawn” 
instruction), it does not spawn, and is discarded instead.
 = If an enemy’s spawn instruction has multiple 
valid locations, the investigator spawning that 
enemy decides among those locations.
 = If a card ability instructs the players to spawn an enemy 
in a particular location (for example: “Search the encounter 
deck for an Acolyte and spawn it in Southside”),  treat the 
ability causing the card to enter play as the enemy’s spawn 
instruction, overriding any other spawn instruction.
Standalone Mode
When playing a standalone game (i.e., playing a 
single scenario as a one-off adventure, removed from 
its campaign), the following rules apply:
 = When building a deck for a standalone game, an investigator 
may use higher level cards in his or her deck (so long as they 
observe the deckbuilding restrictions of the investigator) by 
counting the total experience of all the higher level cards used 
in the deck, and taking additional random basic weaknesses 
based on the following table:   
0-9 experience: 0 additional random basic weaknesses  
10-19 experience: 1 additional random basic weakness  
20-29 experience: 2 additional random basic weaknesses  
30-39 experience: 3 additional random basic weaknesses  
40-49 experience: 4 additional random basic weaknesses   
A player cannot include 50 or more experience 
worth of cards in a standalone deck.
 = After choosing a scenario to play, refer to the Campaign 
Guide for the campaign that scenario is a part of, starting 
at the setup for that campaign, and continuing on to 
the first scenario for that campaign. Read through that 
scenario’s introduction, then skip directly to that scenario’s 
resolution and choose a resolution that is amenable to you. 
You may choose any resolution you wish. (For an added 
challenge, choose resolutions that put the investigators 
in an unfavorable state). If the players are unsure 
which resolution to choose, or are indifferent, choose 
Resolution 1. Record the results of the chosen resolution 
in a Campaign Log as if you were playing through in 
campaign mode, except do not count experience points .
 = Repeat this process for each scenario up to the scenario you 
wish to play. Then, setup and play that scenario as normal.
 = If a story decision would occur during gameplay, choose 
the outcome and record it in your campaign log.
 = Do not apply trauma for having been defeated during gameplay, 
but if trauma is inflicted during a scenario resolution, apply it.
 = If a scenario weakness or asset is earned that is in an expansion 
you do not own, simply continue without that card.
Surge
Surge is a keyword ability.
After drawing and resolving an encounter with the surge keyword, 
an investigator must draw another card from the encounter deck.
 = If a card with the surge keyword is drawn during 
setup, the surge keyword does resolve.
1 ally slot1 body slot
1 accessory slot
1 hand slot
1 arcane slot 2 arcane slots
2 hand slots
19
RULES REFERENCE

Taking Damage/Horror
“Take X damage” is shorthand for “deal X damage 
to your investigator.” “Take X horror” is shorthand 
for “deal X horror to your investigator.”
See “Dealing Damage/Horror” on page 7.
Target
The term “choose” indicates that one or more targets must be 
chosen in order for an ability to resolve. The player resolving 
the ability must choose a game element (usually a card) 
that meets the targeting requirements of the ability.
 = If an ability requires the choosing of a target, 
and there is no valid target (or not enough valid 
targets), the ability cannot be initiated.
 = If multiple targets are required to be chosen by the 
same player, they are chosen simultaneously.
 = An effect that can choose “any number” of targets 
does not successfully resolve (and cannot change the 
game state) if zero of those targets are chosen.
 = A card is not an eligible target for an ability if the resolution 
of that ability’s effect could not change the target’s state. 
(For example, an exhausted enemy could not be chosen as the 
target of an effect that reads, “choose and exhaust an enemy.”)
Then
If the effect of an ability includes the word “then,” the text preceding 
the word “then” must be successfully resolved in full before the 
remainder of the effect described after the word “then” can be resolved.
 = If the pre-then aspect of an effect does successfully resolve 
in full, the post-then aspect of the effect must also resolve.
 = The post-then aspect of an effect has timing priority over all other 
indirect consequences of the resolution of the pre-then aspect. 
(For example, if an effect reads: “Draw an encounter card. Then, 
take 1 horror,” and a player controls an ability that reads “After you 
draw an encounter card,” the post-then “take 1 horror” aspect occurs 
before the “After you draw an encounter card” ability may initiate.)
 = If the pre-then aspect of an effect does not successfully 
resolve in full, the post-then aspect does not resolve.
Threat Area
An investigator’s threat area is a play area in which encounter cards 
currently engaged with and/or affecting an investigator are placed.
 = The cards in an investigator’s threat area are at 
the same location as the investigator.
Tokens, Running out of
There is no limit to the number of tokens (of any type) 
which can be in the game area at a given time. If players 
run out of the provided tokens, other tokens, counters, or 
coins may be used to track the current game state.
Traits
Most cards have one or more traits listed at the top 
of the text box and printed in bold italics.
 = Traits have no inherent effect on the game. Instead, some 
card abilities reference cards that possess specific traits.
Trauma
See “Campaign Play” on page 5.
Treachery Cards
Treachery cards represent curses, afflictions, madnesses, obstacles, 
disasters, or other unexpected occurrences an investigator 
may encounter throughout the course of a scenario. 
When a treachery card is drawn by an investigator, that 
investigator must resolve its effects. Then, place the card in 
its discard pile unless otherwise instructed by the ability.
See “1.4 Each investigator draws 1 encounter card.” on page 24.
Triggered Abilities
A triggered ability is an ability that is optionally triggered by a player. 
A triggered ability can be identified by one of the following icons. 
 = The  icon indicates an action-costed triggered ability. 
 = The  icon indicates a free triggered ability that does not 
cost an action and may be used during any player window.
 = The  indicates a reaction triggered ability 
that does not cost an action and may be used 
any time its triggering condition is met.
See also: “Ability” on page 2, “Appendix I: 
Initiation Sequence” on page 22.”
Triggering Condition
A triggering condition indicates the timing point at which an ability 
may be triggered. Most triggering conditions use the word “when” 
or “after” to establish their relation to the specified timing point.
 = Each eligible ability that triggers in reference to a specified timing 
point may be used once each time that timing point occurs. 
 = If multiple instances of the same ability are eligible 
to initiate, each instance may be used once.
See also: “Ability” on page 2, “After” on 
page 4, “When” on page 21. 
Unique ()
A card with the  symbol before its card title is a unique 
card. There can be no more than one instance of each 
unique card, by title, in play at any given time.
 = A player cannot bring into play a unique card if a 
copy of that card (by title) is already in play.
 = If a unique encounter card that shares a title with a 
unique player card would enter play, discard the player 
card simultaneously as the encounter card enters play.
20
RULES REFERENCE

Upkeep Phase
See “IV. Upkeep phase” on page 25.
Uses (X “type”)
Uses is a keyword ability.
When a card bearing this keyword enters play, place a number of 
resource tokens equal to the value (X), from the token pool, on the card. 
The word following the value establishes and identifies the type of uses 
this card bears. The resource tokens placed on the card are considered 
uses of the established type, and are not considered resource tokens.
 = Each card bearing this keyword also has an ability which 
references the type of use established by the keyword as a part 
of its cost. When such an ability spends a use, a token of that 
type must be removed from the card bearing the ability.
 = Other cards may reference and interact with uses of a 
specified type, usually by adding uses of that type to a 
card, or using uses of that type for other purposes.
 = A card cannot bear uses of a type other than that established 
by its own “Uses (X type)” keyword. (For example, a 
card with “Uses (4 ammo)” cannot gain charges.)
 = Some cards with this keyword bear text that causes the 
card to be discarded if it has no uses remaining. If the card 
contains no such text, it remains in play even if out of uses.
Victory Display, Victory Points
Some encounter cards are worth victory points. The text Victory X  
indicates that a card is worth X victory points.
An encounter card worth victory points that is overcome by the 
investigators is stored in the victory display until the end of the 
scenario. The victory display is an out-of-play game area shared 
by all players. Upon completion of the scenario, the cards in the 
victory display provide experience, which can be used to upgrade 
an investigator’s deck (see “Campaign Play” on page 5).
 = As a victory point enemy is defeated, place the card in 
the victory display instead of in the discard pile.
 = At the end of a scenario, place each victory point location that is 
in play, revealed, and with no clues on it in the victory display.
 = As a victory point treachery card completes its resolution, 
place it in the victory display instead of in the discard pile.
Weakness
Weakness is a card sub-type. These cards represent character 
flaws, curses, madnesses, injuries, tasks, enemies, or story 
elements that are part of an investigator’s backstory, or that 
are acquired over the course of a campaign. Weakness cards 
are resolved differently depending upon their cardtype.
 = When an investigator draws a weakness with an encounter 
cardtype (for example, an enemy or a treachery weakness) , resolve 
that card as if it were just drawn from the encounter deck.
 = When an investigator draws a weakness with a player 
cardtype (for example, an asset, an event, or a skill 
weakness), resolve any Revelation effects on the card, 
and add it to that investigator’s hand. The card may 
then be used as any other player card of its type.
 = If a weakness enters an investigator’s hand in a 
manner that did not involve drawing the card, that 
investigator must resolve the card (including any 
Revelation abilities) as if he or she had just drawn it.
 = The bearer of a weakness is the investigator who started the 
game with the weakness in his or her deck or play area.
 = If a weakness is added to a player’s deck, hand, or 
threat area during the play of a scenario, that weakness 
remains a part of that investigator’s deck for the rest 
of the campaign. (Unless it is removed from the 
campaign by a card ability or scenario resolution.)
 = A player may not optionally choose to discard a weakness 
card from hand, unless a card explicitly specifies otherwise.
 = Weaknesses with an encounter cardtype are, like other 
encounter cards, not controlled by any player. Weaknesses 
with a player cardtype are controlled by their bearer.
 = Some card and game text references a “basic weakness." A basic 
weakness can be identified by the presence of the words “Basic 
Weakness” and the symbol indicated below.
When
The word “when” refers to the moment immediately after the 
specified timing point or triggering condition initiates, but 
before its impact upon the game state resolves. The resolution of 
a “when” ability interrupts the resolution of its timing point or 
triggering condition. (For example, an ability that reads “When you 
draw an enemy card” initiates immediately after you draw the enemy 
card, but before resolving its revelation ability, spawning it, etc.)
See also: “Ability” on page 2, “Priority of 
Simultaneous Resolution” on page 17.
Each of these cards is 
worth 1 victory point.
© 2016 FFGIllus. Yoann Boissonnet 10/16 113
LOCATION
The bloody carcass of a malformed beast swings from a meat 
hook chained to the ceiling. Blood drains slowly from the 
carcass, dripping into a small barrel.
Victory 1.
Forced – After you enter the Attic: 
T ake 1 horror.
Attic
11 22
© 2016 FFGIllus. 118Reiko Murakami 15/16
ENEMY
A monstrous creature feeds from the  
rotting carcass in the attic.
Spawn – Attic.
Humanoid. Monster. Ghoul.
Flesh-Eater
Victory 1.
44 44 11
© 2016 FFGIllus. 96Chris Peuler
TREACHERY
BASIC WEAKNESS
Wait…where am I? What was I doing?
Revelation – Choose and discard all but 1 card 
from your hand.
Madness.
Amnesia
RULES REFERENCE
21

Winning and Losing
Each scenario has a number of different possible endings.
The act deck represents the progress of the investigators through 
a scenario. Some instructions in the act deck (as well as on other 
encounter cardtypes) contain resolution points, in the format 
of: “(→R#).” The players’ primary objective is to advance through 
the act deck until a (hopefully favorable) resolution point is 
reached. Should the act deck invoke a resolution, the players have 
completed the scenario (they may even have “won!”). Instructions 
for resolving the designated resolution are found in the “do not 
read until end of game” section of the campaign manual.
The agenda deck represents the objectives and progress of the 
malicious forces pitted against the investigators in the scenario. 
Some instructions in the agenda deck (as well as on other 
encounter cardtypes) also contain resolution points, in the 
format of: “(→R#).” Should the agenda deck invoke a (usually 
darker) resolution, the players have lost the scenario. Instructions 
for resolving the designated resolution are found in the “do 
not read until end of game” section of the campaign guide.
Should the scenario end with no resolution being reached (for 
example, if all investigators have been eliminated or have resigned) , 
instructions for resolving the scenario can be found in the “do 
not read until end of game” section of the campaign guide.
 = If playing in a campaign, players will proceed to the 
next scenario in the campaign regardless of the outcome 
of the scenario. Even if players “lose” a scenario, they 
still continue their campaign (although with some 
negative consequences from their failure).
 = When playing a standalone scenario, players either win or 
lose the scenario. They win if they complete a resolution 
on an act card. Any other resolution is considered 
a loss (see “Standalone Mode” on page 19).
See “Act Deck and Agenda Deck” on page 3.
The letter “X”
The value of the letter X is defined by a card ability or a granted 
player choice. If X is not defined, its value is equal to 0.
 = For costs involving the letter X, the value of X is defined by 
card ability or player choice, after which the amount paid 
may be modified by effects without altering the value of X.
You/Your
 = An ability on a card in play referencing “you” or “your” 
refers to the investigator who controls, is engaged 
with, or is currently interacting with the card.
 = A Revelation ability that references “you” or “your” refers to 
the investigator who drew the card and is resolving the ability.
 = While resolving an ability initiated by the activate action, “you” 
or “your” refers to the investigator performing the action.
Appendix I: 
Initiation Sequence
When a player wishes to initiate a triggered ability or play a 
card, that player first declares his or her intent. There are two 
preliminary confirmations that must be made before the process 
of initiating an ability or playing a card may begin. These are: 
 = Check play restrictions: determine if the card can be 
played, or if the ability can be initiated, at this time. 
(This includes verifying that the resolution of the effect 
has the potential to change the game state.) If the 
play restrictions are not met, abort this process.
 = Determine the cost (or costs, if multiple costs are required) 
to play the card or initiate the ability. If it is established 
that the cost (taking modifiers into account) can be paid, 
proceed with the remaining steps of this sequence.
Once each of the above confirmations has been 
made, follow these steps, in order:
1. Apply any modifiers to the cost(s).
2. Pay the cost(s). If this step is reached and the cost(s) cannot 
be paid, abort this process without paying any costs. 
 = Upon completion of this step, attacks of 
opportunity, if applicable, resolve.
3. The card commences being played, or the 
effects of the ability attempt to initiate.
4. The effects of the ability (if not canceled in step 3) complete 
their initiation, and resolve. The card is regarded as 
played (and placed in play, or in its owner’s discard pile 
if it’s an event), and the ability is considered resolved 
simultaneously with the completion of this step.
 = If the ability being initiated is on an in-play card, 
the sequence does not stop from completing if 
that card leaves play during the sequence.
Appendix II: 
Timing and Gameplay
The “Phase Sequence timing chart” depicts the phases and steps 
of a game round. Each time an investigator makes a skill test, use 
the skill test timing detailed in the “Skill Test timing chart.”
Numbered items presented in the grey boxes are known 
as framework events. Framework events are mandatory 
occurrences dictated by the structure of the game.
The red boxes are player windows. Players may use 
 triggered abilities in these windows.
The specific details for each of these steps are 
explained starting on page 24.
22
RULES REFERENCE

1.1 Round begins. Mythos phase begins.
1.2 Place 1 doom on the current agenda.
1.3 Check doom threshold.
1.4 Each investigator draws 1 encounter card.
 PLAYER WINDOW
1.5 Mythos phase ends.
2.1 Investigation phase begins.
II. Investigation phase
 PLAYER WINDOW
2.2.1 Active investigator may take an 
action, if able. If an action was taken, 
return to previous player window. If no 
action was taken, proceed to 2.2.2.
2.2.2 Investigator’s turn ends. If an 
investigator has not yet taken a turn this 
phase, return to 2.2. If each investigator has 
taken a turn this phase, proceed to 2.3.
2.2 Next investigator’s turn begins.
2.3 Investigation phase ends.
III. Enemy phase
3.1 Enemy phase begins.
3.2 Hunter enemies move.
 PLAYER WINDOW
3.3 Next investigator resolves engaged 
enemy attacks. If an investigator has not 
yet resolved enemy attacks this phase, 
return to previous player window. After 
final investigator resolves engaged enemy 
attacks, proceed to next player window.
 PLAYER WINDOW
3.4 Enemy phase ends.
IV. Upkeep phase
4.1 Upkeep phase begins.
4.2 Reset actions.
 PLAYER WINDOW
4.3 Ready each exhausted card.
4.4 Each investigator draws  
1 card and gains 1 resource.
4.5 Each investigator checks hand size.
4.6 Upkeep phase ends. Round ends.
 PLAYER WINDOW
I. Mythos phase (skip during first round of game)
Proceed to Investigation Phase.
Proceed to Enemy Phase. Proceed to Mythos Phase of next game round.
Proceed to Upkeep Phase.
23
RULES REFERENCE

Framework Event Details
This section provides a detailed explanation of how to handle each 
framework event step presented on the game’s flow chart, in the 
order that the framework events occur throughout the round.
I. Mythos phase
During the first round of the game, skip the mythos phase.
1.1 Mythos phase begins.
This step formalizes the beginning of the mythos phase. 
As this is the first framework event of the round, it also 
formalizes the beginning of a new game round.
The beginning of a phase is an important game milestone 
that may be referenced in card text, either as a point at 
which an ability may or must resolve, or as a point at which 
a delayed effect resolves or a lasting effect expires.
1.2 Place 1 doom on the current agenda.
Take 1 doom from the token pool, and place 
it on the current agenda card.
1.3 Check doom threshold.
Compare the total number of doom in play (on the current agenda 
and on each other card in play) with the doom threshold of the 
current agenda. If the value of doom in play equals or exceeds the 
doom threshold of the current agenda, the agenda deck advances.
When the agenda deck advances, remove all doom from play, 
returning them to the token pool. Turn the current agenda over, 
read the story text, and follow any advancement instructions. Unless 
otherwise directed by the advancement instructions, the front side 
of the next sequential agenda card becomes the new current agenda, 
and the advancing agenda is simultaneously removed from the game.
Note: Unless a card otherwise specifies that it can advance the 
agenda, this is the only time at which the agenda can advance.
1.4 Each investigator draws 1 encounter card.
In player order, each investigator draws the top card of the 
encounter deck, resolves any revelation abilities on the card, 
and follows the instructions below based on the card’s type.
Each time an investigator draws an encounter card, 
perform the following steps, in order:
1. Draw the card from the encounter deck.
2. Check for the peril keyword on the drawn card. (If the card 
has the peril keyword, the investigator who drew the card 
cannot confer with the other players. Those other players 
cannot play cards, trigger abilities, or commit cards to that 
investigator’s skill test(s) while the peril encounter is resolving.)
3. Resolve the revelation ability on the drawn card.
4. If the card is an enemy, spawn it following any spawn instruction 
the card bears. (A spawn instruction is any text bearing a “spawn” 
precursor.) If the encountered enemy has no spawn instruction, 
the enemy spawns engaged with the investigator encountering the 
card and is placed in that investigator’s threat area.  
 
If the card is a treachery , place the card in the encounter 
discard pile unless otherwise instructed by the ability.
5. If the drawn card has the surge keyword, the investigator 
must draw another card. Restart this process at step 1.
1.5 Mythos phase ends.
This step formalizes the end of the mythos phase.
The end of a phase is an important game milestone that 
may be referenced in card text, either as a point at which 
an ability may or must resolve, or as a point at which a 
delayed effect resolves or a lasting effect expires.
II. Investigation phase
2.1 Investigation phase begins.
This step formalizes the beginning of the investigation phase.
2.2 Next investigator’s turn begins.
The investigators may take their turns in any order. The 
investigators choose among themselves who (among the 
investigators) will take this turn, and making this choice 
begins that investigator’s turn. The investigator taking 
his or her turn is known as the “active investigator.”
Once an investigator begins a turn, that investigator must 
complete the turn before another investigator may take his 
or her turn. Each investigator takes one turn each round.
2.2.1 Investigator takes an action, if able.
During his or her turn, an investigator is permitted to take three 
actions. An action can be used to do one of the following:
 = Investigate  your location.
 = Move to a connecting location.
 = Draw (draw 1 card).
 = Resource  (gain 1 resource).
 = Play an asset or event card from your hand.
 = Activate  an -costed ability on an in-play card you control, 
an in-play encounter card at your location, a card in your 
threat area, the current act card, or the current agenda card.
 = Fight an enemy at your location.
 = Engage an enemy at your location.
 = Attempt to evade an enemy engaged with you.
The three actions an investigator performs during his 
or her turn may be any of the above, in any order, and 
may even be the same action three times in a row.
Important : When an investigator is engaged with one 
or more enemies and takes an action other than to fight, 
to evade, or to activate a parley or resign ability, each of 
those enemies makes an attack of opportunity against the 
investigator, in the order of the investigator’s choosing.
After an investigator takes an action, return to the previous 
player window. An investigator may end his or her turn early 
if there are no other actions he or she wishes to perform. If the 
investigator does not or cannot take an action, proceed to 2.2.2.
24
RULES REFERENCE

2.2.2 Investigator’s turn ends.
Flip the active investigator’s mini card to its colorless side to show 
that the investigator’s turn has ended. If there is an investigator 
who has not yet taken a turn this round, return to 2.2.  If each 
investigator has taken a turn this round, proceed to 2.3.
2.3 Investigation phase ends.
This step formalizes the end of the investigation phase.
III. Enemy phase
3.1 Enemy phase begins.
This step formalizes the beginning of the enemy phase.
3.2 Hunter enemies move.
Resolve the hunter keyword for each ready, unengaged enemy 
that has the hunter keyword (see “Hunter” on page 12).
3.3 Next investigator resolves engaged enemy attacks.
Resolve engaged enemy attacks in player order, 
with each player resolving all of his or her engaged 
enemies before advancing to the next player.
Each ready, engaged enemy makes an attack against the 
investigator to which it is engaged. When an enemy attacks, deal 
its attack (both its damage and its horror, simultaneously) to 
the engaged investigator. Upon completion of dealing the attack 
(and all abilities triggered by the attack), exhaust the enemy. If 
an investigator is engaged with multiple enemies, resolve their 
attacks in the order of the attacked investigator’s choosing.
After an investigator has resolved the attacks of the 
enemies he or she is engaged with, return to the previous 
player window. After the final investigator resolves 
enemy attacks, proceed to the next player window.
3.4 Enemy phase ends.
This step formalizes the end of the enemy phase.
IV. Upkeep phase
4.1 Upkeep phase begins.
This step formalizes the beginning of the upkeep phase.
4.2 Reset actions.
Flip each investigator’s mini card back to its colored 
side. This indicates that the investigator’s actions 
have been reset for his or her next turn.
4.3 Ready exhausted cards.
Simultaneously ready each exhausted card.
4.4 Each investigator draws 1 card and gains 1 resource.
In player order, each investigator draws 1 card. Once those 
cards have been drawn, each investigator gains 1 resource.
4.5 Each investigator checks hand size.
In player order, each investigator with more than 8 cards 
in hand chooses and discards cards from his or her hand 
until he or she has 8 cards remaining in hand.
4.6 Upkeep phase ends.
This step formalizes the end of the upkeep phase.
As the upkeep phase is the final phase in the round, this step 
also formalizes the end of the round. Any active “until the 
end of the round” lasting effects expire at this time.
After this step is complete, play proceeds to the beginning 
of the mythos phase of the next game round.
25RULES REFERENCE

Skill Test Timing
ST.1 Determine skill type of test. Skill test of that type begins.
This step formalizes the beginning of a skill test. There are four 
types of skill tests: willpower tests, intellect tests, combat tests, 
and agility tests. The card ability or game rule determines which 
type of test is necessary, and thereby a test of that type begins.
ST.2 Commit cards from hand to skill test.
The investigator performing the skill test may commit any number of 
cards with an appropriate skill icon from his or her hand to this test.
Each other investigator at the same location as the 
investigator performing the skill test may commit one 
card with an appropriate skill icon to this test.
An appropriate skill icon is either one that matches the skill 
being tested, or a wild icon. The investigator performing this 
test gets +1 to his or her skill value during this test for each 
appropriate skill icon that is committed to this test.
Cards that lack an appropriate skill icon may not be committed to 
a skill test. Do not pay a card’s resource cost when committing it.
ST.3 Reveal chaos token.
The investigator performing the skill test reveals one 
chaos token at random from the chaos bag.
ST.4 Apply chaos symbol effect(s).
Apply any effects initiated by the symbol on the revealed chaos 
token. Each of the following symbols indicates that an ability 
on the scenario reference card must initiate: , , , or .
The  symbol indicates that the  ability on the investigator 
card belonging to the player performing the test must initiate.
If none of the above symbols are revealed, or if the icon has no 
corresponding ability, this step completes with no effect.
ST.5 Determine investigator’s modified skill value.
Start with the base skill (of the skill that matches the type of test 
that is resolving) of the investigator performing this test, and apply 
all active modifiers, including the appropriate icons that have been 
committed to this test, effects of the chaos token(s) revealed, and all 
active card abilities that are modifying the investigator’s skill value.
ST.6 Determine success/failure of skill test.
Compare the investigator’s modified skill 
value to the difficulty of the skill test.
If the investigator’s skill value equals or exceeds the difficulty 
for this test (as indicated by the card or game mechanic 
invoking the test), the investigator succeeds at the test.
 = If an investigator automatically succeeds at a test via a card 
ability, the total difficulty of that test is considered 0.
If the investigator’s skill value is less than the difficulty 
for this test, the investigator fails at the test.
 = If an investigator automatically fails at a test via a 
card ability or revealing the  symbol, his or her 
total skill value for that test is considered 0.
ST.7 Apply skill test results.
The card ability or game rule that initiated a skill test usually 
indicates the consequences of success and/or failure for that 
test. (Additionally, some other card abilities may contribute 
additional consequences, or modify existing consequences, at 
this time.) Resolve the appropriate consequences (based on the 
success or failure established during step ST.6) at this time.
If there are multiple results to be applied during this 
step, the investigator performing the test applies 
those results in the order of his or her choice.
ST.8 Skill test ends.
This step formalizes the end of this skill test. Discard 
all cards that were committed to this skill test, and 
return all revealed chaos tokens to the chaos bag.
Skill Test Timing
ST.1 Determine skill of test. Skill 
test of that type begins.
 PLAYER WINDOW
ST.2 Commit cards from hand to skill test.
 PLAYER WINDOW
ST.3 Reveal chaos token.
ST.4 Resolve chaos symbol effect(s).
ST.5 Determine investigator’s modified skill value.
ST.6 Determine success/failure of skill test.
ST.7 Apply skill test results.
ST.8 Skill test ends. 
26 RULES REFERENCE

Appendix III: 
Setting Up The Game
To setup a game, perform the following steps in order:
1. Choose investigators.  Each player chooses 
a different investigator, and places that 
investigator’s card in his or her play area. 
2. Take trauma damage/horror. In campaign play, 
each player places damage equal to his or her 
physical trauma, and horror equal to his or her 
mental trauma, on his or her investigator card.
3. Choose one of those investigators to be 
the lead investigator for this game.
4. Assemble and shuffle the investigator decks.
5. Assemble token pool.  Place the damage, 
horror, clue/doom, and resource tokens 
within easy reach of all players.
6. Assemble the chaos bag.  Place the chaos tokens 
indicated by the campaign setup instructions into the 
bag, and return the other chaos tokens to the game box.
 = In campaign mode, use the chaos bag as it was 
composed upon completion of the previous scenario.
7. Collect starting resources. Each investigator gains  
5 resources from the token pool.
8. Draw opening hands. Each player draws 5 cards. Each 
player, in player order, may mulligan once at this time. 
 = Each weakness card drawn during this step is 
ignored, set aside (without resolving it), and 
replaced by drawing another card from the deck.  
Upon completion of this step, shuffle each of these 
weakness cards back into its owner’s deck.
9. Read the scenario introduction in the campaign guide.
10. Perform the scenario setup instructions indicated 
by the campaign guide. This includes gathering the 
encounter sets listed in the setup instructions in the 
campaign guide, placing locations, placing investigator 
mini cards at the location each investigator begins play 
at, setting aside any listed cards, and shuffling remaining 
encounter cards together to form the encounter deck.
11. Set agenda deck. Assemble the agenda deck in 
sequential order, with the art side faceup, so that 
“agenda 1a” is on top. Read the story text on agenda 1a.
12. Set act deck. Assemble the act deck in sequential 
order, with the art side faceup, so that “act 1a” 
is on top. Read the story text on act 1a.
13. Place the scenario reference card 
next to the agenda deck.
There are no action windows during setup. 
Players may only trigger player card abilities or 
play cards from hand during setup if the card or 
ability’s specific triggering condition is met.
27

Scenario Card Anatomy Key
1. Encounter Set 
Symbol: Indicates 
which encounter set 
the card belongs to.
2. Cardtype : Indicates 
how a card behaves 
or may be used 
in the game.
3. Title: The name 
of this card.
4. Traits: Flavorful 
attributes that may 
be referenced by 
card abilities.
5. Ability : This card’s 
specialized means 
of interacting 
with the game.
6. Enemy Fight Value: 
Determines the 
difficulty of a skill test 
to attack this enemy.
7. Enemy Health Value: 
This enemy’s health 
value, which measures 
its physical durability.
8. Enemy Evade Value: 
Determines the 
difficulty of a skill test 
to evade this enemy.
9. Damage: The amount 
of damage this enemy 
deals with its attack.
10. Horror: The amount 
of horror this enemy 
deals with its attack.
11. Shroud: Determines 
the difficulty of a skill 
test to investigate 
this location.
12. Clue Value: The 
number of clues placed 
on this location when 
it is first revealed.
13. Connection 
Symbols: Indicate 
the movement 
connections 
between locations.
14. Act/ Agenda 
Sequence: Used 
to order the act/
agenda deck.
15. Clue Threshold: 
The number of clues 
that must be spent 
to advance this act.
16. Doom Threshold: 
The amount of doom 
in play required to 
advance this agenda.
17. Product Set 
Information : 
Indicates this card’s 
product of origin.
18. Encounter Set 
Number: Indicates 
the number of cards 
within an encounter 
set, and this card’s 
place within that set.
© 2016 FFGIllus. Yoann Boissonnet 10/16 113
LOCATION
The bloody carcass of a malformed beast swings from a meat 
hook chained to the ceiling. Blood drains slowly from the 
carcass, dripping into a small barrel.
Victory 1.
Forced – After you enter the Attic: 
T ake 1 horror.
Attic
11 22
© 2016 FFGIllus. Yoann Boissonnet
LOCATION
The smell of rotten meat assaults your nostrils as you 
approach the attic stairs.
Attic
Location
Unrevealed Location
Appendix IV: Card Anatomy
This section presents a detailed anatomy of each 
cardtype. Pages 28-29 detail scenario cards, and 
pages 30-31 detail investigator/player cards.
Scenario cards include act cards, agenda cards, location cards, 
treachery cards, enemy cards, and scenario reference cards.
Player cards include investigator cards, investigator mini 
cards, asset cards, event cards, and skill cards.
28
RULES REFERENCE

© 2016 FFGIllus. 122Sasha Jones 3/20
Time Is Running Short
The minutes pass quickly as your 
investigation continues.
: Resign. Y ou don’t want to risk 
taking too long, so you head to safety 
with the information you’ve gathered.
Agenda 2a
88
© 2016 FFGIllus. 4/20Romana Kendelic 123
You have one night to find the members of this 
cult and unveil their plan. The more members 
of the cult you can find and interrogate before 
midnight, the better.
 The investigators spend 2 
 clues, 
as a group: Draw the top card of the 
Cultist deck.
Objective – Find as many unique Cultist 
enemies as you can and add them to the 
victory display. If there are 6 unique Cultist 
enemies in the victory display, advance. 
(Note: Not all 6 of them are in the 
Cultist deck.)
Uncovering the Conspiracy
Act 1a

© 2016 FFGIllus. 166Michael Komarck 1/3
TREACHERY
Dark forces stir against you. If you do not act quickly,  
a sinister plot will be fulfilled.
Revelation – Place 1 doom on the current 
agenda. This effect can cause the current 
agenda to advance. 
Omen.
Ancient Evils
Treachery Enemy
© 2016 FFGIllus. 116Illus. 13/16Chun Lo
ENEMY
Victory 2.
A figure in red robes wearing a bone mask.  
It gibbers and snarls before leaping to attack.
Prey – Highest .
Hunter. Retaliate.
Humanoid. Monster. Ghoul. Elite.
Ghoul Priest
44 55
 44
Agenda (side “a”) Act (side “a”)
The Clock Strikes Midnight
Twelve bells ring out across the town. It is midnight. 
There is no time left to investigate the city; you must 
act based on the information you’ve collected from the 
cultists you’ve found.
(→R2)
AGENDA 
2b
 ACT 1bSecrets Unveiled
You’ve successfully uncovered the identities of all of the 
cult’s high-ranking members within Arkham. The man 
who had stalked you throughout the city was dedicated 
in his conviction, as was Herman, the undertaker of the 
graveyard. Others seemed to have been coerced to aid the 
cult. Ruth, the mortician, had been told that her family 
would be killed if she did not supply the ghouls with fresh 
corpses. Thankfully, you managed to help her escape the 
hospital safely. Peter, the professor, had to be convinced 
that his involvement with the cult would do more harm 
than good. Victoria’s obsession with occult artifacts 
had landed her deep within the cult’s web. When you 
confronted Drew in the asylum, he attacked you—but 
interestingly, he did so because he thought you were part 
of the cult. The deeper you delve into this conspiracy, the 
clearer it becomes that many lives have been ruined by it.
(→R1)
Agenda (side “b”) Act (side “b”)
29
RULES REFERENCE

Player Card Anatomy Key
1. Cost: The resource 
cost to play a card.
2. Level: The amount of 
experience required 
to purchase this 
card for a deck.
3. Cardtype : Indicates how 
a card behaves or may 
be used in the game.
4. Class Symbol : The 
class to which a card 
belongs. Neutral cards 
have no class symbol.
5. Title: The name 
of this card.
6. Subtitle: A secondary 
identifier for a card.
7. Skills : This investigator’s 
value for his or her skills, 
in order: Willpower ( ), 
Intellect (), Combat 
(), Agility ( ).
8. Traits: Flavorful 
attributes that may 
be referenced by 
card abilities.
9. Ability : This card’s 
specialized means of 
interacting with the game.
10. Elder Sign Ability : This 
investigator’s ability for 
the Elder Sign token.
11. Health: This card’s health 
value, which measures 
its physical durability.
12. Sanity : This card’s sanity 
value, which measures 
its mental durability.
13. Skill Test Icons: 
Modify skill value while 
committed to a skill test.
14. Product Set 
Information : 
Indicates this card’s 
product of origin.
© 2020 FFGIllus. Aleksander Karcz 2
“I know of books so powerful, 
they can rewrite reality.”
The Librarian 2253
Miskatonic.
Y ou may take an additional 
action during your turn, 
which can only be used on 
T ome  abilities.
 effect: +0. If you succeed, 
draw 1 card for each T ome 
you control.
Daisy Walker
9955
Investigator Mini-Card
Investigator
30
RULES REFERENCE

© 2016 FFGIllus. 54Paco Rico T orres
ASSET
The Louisiana Lion
“I was born in Mississippi. Louisiana just sounded better.”
Y ou may take an additional action during 
your turn.
Ally. Criminal.
Leo De Luca
2222
55
© 2016 FFGIllus. 64Magali Villeneuve
EVENT
“We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of 
black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we 
should voyage far.”
–H. P . Lovecraft, “The Call of Cthulhu”
Draw the top card of the encounter deck. 
Then, discover 2 clues at your location.
Insight.
Drawn to the Flame
00
© 2016 FFGIllus. 81David Auden Nash
SKILL
If this skill test is successful during an 
evasion attempt, the evading investigator 
may immediately disengage from each other 
enemy engaged with him or her, and may 
move to a connecting location.
Innate.
Survival Instinct
Asset
Event
Skill
31
RULES REFERENCE

® & © 2021 Fantasy Flight Games. Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are TM & © Gamegenic GmbH, 
Germany. Fantasy Flight Games, 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, MN 55113, U.S.A., 1-651-639-1905. 
Actual components may vary from those shown
Imported and Distributed in the EU by: Asmodee United Kingdom , Unit 6 Waterbrook Road Alton Hampshire, 
GU34 2UD, United Kingdom, Asmodee Nordics,  Valseholmen 1 2650 Hvidovre, Danemark, Asmodee The 
Netherlands , Vossenbeemd 51, 5706 CL Helmond, The Netherlands
FANTASY
FLIGHT
GAMES
PROOF OF 
PURCHASE
AHC60  
Arkham Horror
The Card Game
Index
A
Act Deck  ...........................................3
Action  ...............................................4
Action costed triggered abilities 
() (see Ability)  ..........................3
Action Designators  
(see Ability)  .....................................3
Activate Action ...............................4
Active Player  ...................................4
Advancing the act/agenda  
(see Act Deck and  
Agenda Deck)  .................................3
Advancing to Next Scenario  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................6
After  ...................................................4
Agenda Deck  ...................................3
Aloof  ..................................................4
Ammo (see Uses) .........................21
Asset Cards  ......................................4
Attach to  ...........................................4
Attack, against an enemy  
(see Fight Action)  ........................12
Attacker, Attacked  .........................4
Attack of Opportunity ..................5
Automatic Failure/Success  .........5
B
Base Value  ........................................5
Bearer  ................................................5
Below zero (see Modifiers)  .......15
Blank  .................................................5
C
Campaign Play  ...............................5
Cancel  ...............................................6
Cannot  ..............................................6
Card level  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................5
Cardtypes  ........................................6
Chaos Tokens .................................6
Charges (see Uses)  ......................21
Classes (see Deckbuilding)  ........8
Clues ..................................................6
Collection  ........................................7
Committing cards to a skill test (see 
Skill Test Timing)  ......................26
Constant Abilities  
(see Ability)  .....................................2
Control  
(see Ownership and Control)  ..16
Copy ..................................................7
Costs ..................................................7
D
Damage (see Health and Damage) 12
Dealing Damage/Horror  ............7
Deckbuilding  ..................................8
Deckbuilding Options  
(see Deckbuilding)  .......................8
Deckbuilding Requirements  
(see Deckbuilding)  .......................8
Deck Size (see Deckbuilding)  ....8
Delayed Effects  ...............................8
Difficulty (level) .............................9
Difficulty (skill tests)  ....................9
Discard Piles  ...................................9
Doom ................................................9
Draw Action  ....................................9
Drawing Cards  ...............................9
E
Effects  ...............................................9
Elimination  ...................................10
Empty Location  ...........................10
Encounter Deck  ...........................10
Encounter Set  ...............................10
Enemy Cards  .................................10
Enemy Engagement  ....................10
Enemy phase  ................................ 25
Engage Action  ...............................11
Enters Play  .....................................11
Evade Action  .................................11
Event Cards  ...................................11
Exceptional  ....................................11
Exhaust, Exhausted  .....................11
Experience  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................5
F
Fast...................................................11
Fight Action  ..................................12
Forced Abilities (see Ability)  .....2
Free triggered ability ( )  
(see Ability)  .....................................3
G
Gains  ...............................................12
Game ...............................................12
Group Limits/Maximums  
(see Limits and Maximums )  .....14
Guardian (see Deckbuilding)  ....8
H
Hand size  
(see Upkeep Phase)  .................... 25
Heal .................................................12
Health and Damage  ....................12
Horror  
(see Sanity and Horror)  .............18
Hunter.............................................12
I
Immune  ..........................................13
In Play and Out of Play  ...............13
In Player Order  .............................13
Instead  ............................................13
Investigate Action  .......................13
Investigation phase  .................... 24
Investigator Deck  ........................13
J
Joining or Leaving a Campaign (see 
Campaign Play)  ..............................6
K
Keywords (see Ability)  ................3
L
Lasting Effects  ..............................14
Lead Investigator  .........................14
Leaves Play  ....................................14
Level (of a card)  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................5
Limits and Maximums  ...............14
Limit X per...  
(see Limits and Maximums )  .....14
Location Cards  .............................14
M
Massive  ...........................................15
Max X per...  
(see Limits and Maxima) ...........14
May ..................................................15
Modifiers  ........................................15
Move ................................................15
Move Action  ..................................15
Mulligan  .........................................15
Must.................................................16
Mystic (see Deckbuilding)  .........8
Mythos phase  ............................... 24
N
Nearest ............................................16
Negative values  
(see Modifiers) .............................15
Neutral (see Deckbuilding)  ........8
O
Out of Play (see In Play  
and Out of Play)  ...........................13
Ownership and Control  .............16
P
Parley...............................................16
Peril  .................................................16
Per Investigator ( ) ...................16
Permanent  .....................................16
Play ..................................................16
Play Action  ....................................16
Player Card Anatomy  ................ 30
Player Order  
(see In Player Order)  ..................13
Player Windows  
(see Appendix II: Timing  
and Gameplay)  ............................ 22
Play Restrictions, Permissions, and 
Instructions  ...................................17
Prey ..................................................17
Printed  ............................................17
Priority of Simultaneous 
Resolution  ......................................17
Purchasing new cards  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................5
Put into Play  ..................................17
Q
Qualifiers  .......................................17
R
Reaction triggered abilities ( ) 
(see Ability)  .....................................3
Ready  ..............................................17
Removed from Game  ..................17
Replacement Effects  ...................13
Resign  .............................................17
Resource Action  ...........................17
Resources  .......................................18
Retaliate  .........................................18
Revealing a location  
(see Location Cards  
 / Move) ...................................14, 15
Revelation  ......................................18
Rogue (see Deckbuilding)  ..........8
S
Sanity and Horror  ........................18
Scenario Card Anatomy  ........... 28
Search  ..............................................18
Secrets (see Uses)  ........................21
Seeker (see Deckbuilding)  ..........8
Self-Referential Text  ...................18
Set Aside  .........................................18
Skill Cards  .....................................18
Skill Tests  .......................................18
Skill Test Timing (in detail)  ....26
Slots .................................................19
Spawn ..............................................19
Standalone Mode  .........................19
Story Assets  
(see Asset Cards)  ...........................4
Supplies (see Uses)  ......................21
Surge ................................................19
Survivor (see Deckbuilding)  ......8
T
Taking Damage/Horror  ........... 20
Target .............................................20
Tests (see Skill Tests)  .................18
Threat Area ...................................20
Tokens, Running out of  ............ 20
Traits .............................................. 20
Trauma (see Campaign Play)  .....5
Treachery Cards .......................... 20
Triggering Condition  ................ 20
U
Unique () .................................... 20
Unrevealed Locations  
(see Location Cards)  ..................14
Upgrading a card  
(see Campaign Play)  .....................5
Upkeep phase  ............................... 25
Uses (X “type”) .............................21
V
Victory Display,  
Victory Points  ...............................21
W
Weakness  .......................................21
Winning and Losing  .................. 22
Would (see Instead)  ....................13
X
“X,” the letter  ................................22
Y
You/ Your ......................................22
32
RULES REFERENCE